Inexorably Sam Galloway saddled his pony. He was going away from the
Rancho Altito at the end of a three-months’ visit. It is not to be
expected that a guest should put up with wheat coffee and biscuits
yellow-streaked with saleratus for longer than that. Nick Napoleon, the
big Negro man cook, had never been able to make good biscuits. Once
before, when Nick was cooking at the Willow Ranch, Sam had been forced
to fly from his _cuisine_, after only a six-weeks’ sojourn.

On Sam’s face was an expression of sorrow, deepened with regret and
slightly tempered by the patient forgiveness of a connoisseur who
cannot be understood. But very firmly and inexorably he buckled his
saddle-cinches, looped his stake-rope and hung it to his saddle-horn,
tied his slicker and coat on the cantle, and looped his quirt on his
right wrist. The Merrydews (householders of the Rancho Altito), men,
women, children, and servants, vassals, visitors, employés, dogs, and
casual callers were grouped in the “gallery” of the ranch house, all
with faces set to the tune of melancholy and grief. For, as the coming
of Sam Galloway to any ranch, camp, or cabin between the rivers Frio or
Bravo del Norte aroused joy, so his departure caused mourning and
distress.

And then, during absolute silence, except for the bumping of a hind
elbow of a hound dog as he pursued a wicked flea, Sam tenderly and
carefully tied his guitar across his saddle on top of his slicker and
coat. The guitar was in a green duck bag; and if you catch the
significance of it, it explains Sam.

Sam Galloway was the Last of the Troubadours. Of course you know about
the troubadours. The encyclopædia says they flourished between the
eleventh and the thirteenth centuries. What they flourished doesn’t
seem clear—you may be pretty sure it wasn’t a sword: maybe it was a
fiddlebow, or a forkful of spaghetti, or a lady’s scarf. Anyhow, Sam
Galloway was one of ’em.

Sam put on a martyred expression as he mounted his pony. But the
expression on his face was hilarious compared with the one on his
pony’s. You see, a pony gets to know his rider mighty well, and it is
not unlikely that cow ponies in pastures and at hitching racks had
often guyed Sam’s pony for being ridden by a guitar player instead of
by a rollicking, cussing, all-wool cowboy. No man is a hero to his
saddle-horse. And even an escalator in a department store might be
excused for tripping up a troubadour.

Oh, I know I’m one; and so are you. You remember the stories you
memorize and the card tricks you study and that little piece on the
piano—how does it go?—ti-tum-te-tum-ti-tum—those little Arabian Ten
Minute Entertainments that you furnish when you go up to call on your
rich Aunt Jane. You should know that _omnæ personæ in tres partes
divisæ sunt_. Namely: Barons, Troubadours, and Workers. Barons have no
inclination to read such folderol as this; and Workers have no time: so
I know you must be a Troubadour, and that you will understand Sam
Galloway. Whether we sing, act, dance, write, lecture, or paint, we are
only troubadours; so let us make the worst of it.

The pony with the Dante Alighieri face, guided by the pressure of Sam’s
knees, bore that wandering minstrel sixteen miles southeastward. Nature
was in her most benignant mood. League after league of delicate, sweet
flowerets made fragrant the gently undulating prairie. The east wind
tempered the spring warmth; wool-white clouds flying in from the
Mexican Gulf hindered the direct rays of the April sun. Sam sang songs
as he rode. Under his pony’s bridle he had tucked some sprigs of
chaparral to keep away the deer flies. Thus crowned, the long-faced
quadruped looked more Dantesque than before, and, judging by his
countenance, seemed to think of Beatrice.

Straight as topography permitted, Sam rode to the sheep ranch of old
man Ellison. A visit to a sheep ranch seemed to him desirable just
then. There had been too many people, too much noise, argument,
competition, confusion, at Rancho Altito. He had never conferred upon
old man Ellison the favour of sojourning at his ranch; but he knew he
would be welcome. The troubadour is his own passport everywhere. The
Workers in the castle let down the drawbridge to him, and the Baron
sets him at his left hand at table in the banquet hall. There ladies
smile upon him and applaud his songs and stories, while the Workers
bring boars’ heads and flagons. If the Baron nods once or twice in his
carved oaken chair, he does not do it maliciously.

Old man Ellison welcomed the troubadour flatteringly. He had often
heard praises of Sam Galloway from other ranchmen who had been
complimented by his visits, but had never aspired to such an honour for
his own humble barony. I say barony because old man Ellison was the
Last of the Barons. Of course, Mr. Bulwer-Lytton lived too early to
know him, or he wouldn’t have conferred that sobriquet upon Warwick. In
life it is the duty and the function of the Baron to provide work for
the Workers and lodging and shelter for the Troubadours.

Old man Ellison was a shrunken old man, with a short, yellow-white
beard and a face lined and seamed by past-and-gone smiles. His ranch
was a little two-room box house in a grove of hackberry trees in the
lonesomest part of the sheep country. His household consisted of a
Kiowa Indian man cook, four hounds, a pet sheep, and a half-tamed
coyote chained to a fence-post. He owned 3,000 sheep, which he ran on
two sections of leased land and many thousands of acres neither leased
nor owned. Three or four times a year some one who spoke his language
would ride up to his gate and exchange a few bald ideas with him. Those
were red-letter days to old man Ellison. Then in what illuminated,
embossed, and gorgeously decorated capitals must have been written the
day on which a troubadour—a troubadour who, according to the
encyclopædia, should have flourished between the eleventh and the
thirteenth centuries—drew rein at the gates of his baronial castle!

Old man Ellison’s smiles came back and filled his wrinkles when he saw
Sam. He hurried out of the house in his shuffling, limping way to greet
him.

“Hello, Mr. Ellison,” called Sam cheerfully. “Thought I’d drop over and
see you a while. Notice you’ve had fine rains on your range. They ought
to make good grazing for your spring lambs.”

“Well, well, well,” said old man Ellison. “I’m mighty glad to see you,
Sam. I never thought you’d take the trouble to ride over to as
out-of-the-way an old ranch as this. But you’re mighty welcome. ’Light.
I’ve got a sack of new oats in the kitchen—shall I bring out a feed for
your hoss?”

“Oats for him?” said Sam, derisively. “No, sir-ee. He’s as fat as a pig
now on grass. He don’t get rode enough to keep him in condition. I’ll
just turn him in the horse pasture with a drag rope on if you don’t
mind.”

I am positive that never during the eleventh and thirteenth centuries
did Baron, Troubadour, and Worker amalgamate as harmoniously as their
parallels did that evening at old man Ellison’s sheep ranch. The
Kiowa’s biscuits were light and tasty and his coffee strong.
Ineradicable hospitality and appreciation glowed on old man Ellison’s
weather-tanned face. As for the troubadour, he said to himself that he
had stumbled upon pleasant places indeed. A well-cooked, abundant meal,
a host whom his lightest attempt to entertain seemed to delight far
beyond the merits of the exertion, and the reposeful atmosphere that
his sensitive soul at that time craved united to confer upon him a
satisfaction and luxurious ease that he had seldom found on his tours
of the ranches.

After the delectable supper, Sam untied the green duck bag and took out
his guitar. Not by way of payment, mind you—neither Sam Galloway nor
any other of the true troubadours are lineal descendants of the late
Tommy Tucker. You have read of Tommy Tucker in the works of the
esteemed but often obscure Mother Goose. Tommy Tucker sang for his
supper. No true troubadour would do that. He would have his supper, and
then sing for Art’s sake.

Sam Galloway’s repertoire comprised about fifty funny stories and
between thirty and forty songs. He by no means stopped there. He could
talk through twenty cigarettes on any topic that you brought up. And he
never sat up when he could lie down; and never stood when he could sit.
I am strongly disposed to linger with him, for I am drawing a portrait
as well as a blunt pencil and a tattered thesaurus will allow.

I wish you could have seen him: he was small and tough and inactive
beyond the power of imagination to conceive. He wore an
ultramarine-blue woollen shirt laced down the front with a pearl-gray,
exaggerated sort of shoestring, indestructible brown duck clothes,
inevitable high-heeled boots with Mexican spurs, and a Mexican straw
sombrero.

That evening Sam and old man Ellison dragged their chairs out under the
hackberry trees. They lighted cigarettes; and the troubadour gaily
touched his guitar. Many of the songs he sang were the weird,
melancholy, minor-keyed _canciones_ that he had learned from the
Mexican sheep herders and _vaqueros_. One, in particular, charmed and
soothed the soul of the lonely baron. It was a favourite song of the
sheep herders, beginning: “_Huile, huile, palomita_,” which being
translated means, “Fly, fly, little dove.” Sam sang it for old man
Ellison many times that evening.

The troubadour stayed on at the old man’s ranch. There was peace and
quiet and appreciation there, such as he had not found in the noisy
camps of the cattle kings. No audience in the world could have crowned
the work of poet, musician, or artist with more worshipful and
unflagging approval than that bestowed upon his efforts by old man
Ellison. No visit by a royal personage to a humble woodchopper or
peasant could have been received with more flattering thankfulness and
joy.

On a cool, canvas-covered cot in the shade of the hackberry trees Sam
Galloway passed the greater part of his time. There he rolled his brown
paper cigarettes, read such tedious literature as the ranch afforded,
and added to his repertoire of improvisations that he played so
expertly on his guitar. To him, as a slave ministering to a great lord,
the Kiowa brought cool water from the red jar hanging under the brush
shelter, and food when he called for it. The prairie zephyrs fanned him
mildly; mocking-birds at morn and eve competed with but scarce equalled
the sweet melodies of his lyre; a perfumed stillness seemed to fill all
his world. While old man Ellison was pottering among his flocks of
sheep on his mile-an-hour pony, and while the Kiowa took his siesta in
the burning sunshine at the end of the kitchen, Sam would lie on his
cot thinking what a happy world he lived in, and how kind it is to the
ones whose mission in life it is to give entertainment and pleasure.
Here he had food and lodging as good as he had ever longed for;
absolute immunity from care or exertion or strife; an endless welcome,
and a host whose delight at the sixteenth repetition of a song or a
story was as keen as at its initial giving. Was there ever a troubadour
of old who struck upon as royal a castle in his wanderings? While he
lay thus, meditating upon his blessings, little brown cottontails would
shyly frolic through the yard; a covey of white-topknotted blue quail
would run past, in single file, twenty yards away; a _paisano_ bird,
out hunting for tarantulas, would hop upon the fence and salute him
with sweeping flourishes of its long tail. In the eighty-acre horse
pasture the pony with the Dantesque face grew fat and almost smiling.
The troubadour was at the end of his wanderings.

Old man Ellison was his own _vaciero_. That means that he supplied his
sheep camps with wood, water, and rations by his own labours instead of
hiring a _vaciero_. On small ranches it is often done.

One morning he started for the camp of Incarnación Felipe de la Cruz y
Monte Piedras (one of his sheep herders) with the week’s usual rations
of brown beans, coffee, meal, and sugar. Two miles away on the trail
from old Fort Ewing he met, face to face, a terrible being called King
James, mounted on a fiery, prancing, Kentucky-bred horse.

King James’s real name was James King; but people reversed it because
it seemed to fit him better, and also because it seemed to please his
majesty. King James was the biggest cattleman between the Alamo plaza
in San Antone and Bill Hopper’s saloon in Brownsville. Also he was the
loudest and most offensive bully and braggart and bad man in southwest
Texas. And he always made good whenever he bragged; and the more noise
he made the more dangerous he was. In the story papers it is always the
quiet, mild-mannered man with light blue eyes and a low voice who turns
out to be really dangerous; but in real life and in this story such is
not the case. Give me my choice between assaulting a large, loudmouthed
rough-houser and an inoffensive stranger with blue eyes sitting quietly
in a corner, and you will see something doing in the corner every time.

King James, as I intended to say earlier, was a fierce,
two-hundred-pound, sunburned, blond man, as pink as an October
strawberry, and with two horizontal slits under shaggy red eyebrows for
eyes. On that day he wore a flannel shirt that was tan-coloured, with
the exception of certain large areas which were darkened by
transudations due to the summer sun. There seemed to be other clothing
and garnishings about him, such as brown duck trousers stuffed into
immense boots, and red handkerchiefs and revolvers; and a shotgun laid
across his saddle and a leather belt with millions of cartridges
shining in it—but your mind skidded off such accessories; what held
your gaze was just the two little horizontal slits that he used for
eyes.

This was the man that old man Ellison met on the trail; and when you
count up in the baron’s favour that he was sixty-five and weighed
ninety-eight pounds and had heard of King James’s record and that he
(the baron) had a hankering for the _vita simplex_ and had no gun with
him and wouldn’t have used it if he had, you can’t censure him if I
tell you that the smiles with which the troubadour had filled his
wrinkles went out of them and left them plain wrinkles again. But he
was not the kind of baron that flies from danger. He reined in the
mile-an-hour pony (no difficult feat), and saluted the formidable
monarch.

King James expressed himself with royal directness. “You’re that old
snoozer that’s running sheep on this range, ain’t you?” said he. “What
right have you got to do it? Do you own any land, or lease any?”

“I have two sections leased from the state,” said old man Ellison,
mildly.

“Not by no means you haven’t,” said King James. “Your lease expired
yesterday; and I had a man at the land office on the minute to take it
up. You don’t control a foot of grass in Texas. You sheep men have got
to git. Your time’s up. It’s a cattle country, and there ain’t any room
in it for snoozers. This range you’ve got your sheep on is mine. I’m
putting up a wire fence, forty by sixty miles; and if there’s a sheep
inside of it when it’s done it’ll be a dead one. I’ll give you a week
to move yours away. If they ain’t gone by then, I’ll send six men over
here with Winchesters to make mutton out of the whole lot. And if I
find you here at the same time this is what you’ll get.”

King James patted the breech of his shot-gun warningly.

Old man Ellison rode on to the camp of Incarnación. He sighed many
times, and the wrinkles in his face grew deeper. Rumours that the old
order was about to change had reached him before. The end of Free Grass
was in sight. Other troubles, too, had been accumulating upon his
shoulders. His flocks were decreasing instead of growing; the price of
wool was declining at every clip; even Bradshaw, the storekeeper at
Frio City, at whose store he bought his ranch supplies, was dunning him
for his last six months’ bill and threatening to cut him off. And so
this last greatest calamity suddenly dealt out to him by the terrible
King James was a crusher.

When the old man got back to the ranch at sunset he found Sam Galloway
lying on his cot, propped against a roll of blankets and wool sacks,
fingering his guitar.

“Hello, Uncle Ben,” the troubadour called, cheerfully. “You rolled in
early this evening. I been trying a new twist on the Spanish Fandango
to-day. I just about got it. Here’s how she goes—listen.”

“That’s fine, that’s mighty fine,” said old man Ellison, sitting on the
kitchen step and rubbing his white, Scotch-terrier whiskers. “I reckon
you’ve got all the musicians beat east and west, Sam, as far as the
roads are cut out.”

“Oh, I don’t know,” said Sam, reflectively. “But I certainly do get
there on variations. I guess I can handle anything in five flats about
as well as any of ’em. But you look kind of fagged out, Uncle Ben—ain’t
you feeling right well this evening?”

“Little tired; that’s all, Sam. If you ain’t played yourself out, let’s
have that Mexican piece that starts off with: ‘_Huile, huile,
palomita_.’ It seems that that song always kind of soothes and comforts
me after I’ve been riding far or anything bothers me.”

“Why, _seguramente, señor_,” said Sam. “I’ll hit her up for you as
often as you like. And before I forget about it, Uncle Ben, you want to
jerk Bradshaw up about them last hams he sent us. They’re just a little
bit strong.”

A man sixty-five years old, living on a sheep ranch and beset by a
complication of disasters, cannot successfully and continuously
dissemble. Moreover, a troubadour has eyes quick to see unhappiness in
others around him—because it disturbs his own ease. So, on the next
day, Sam again questioned the old man about his air of sadness and
abstraction. Then old man Ellison told him the story of King James’s
threats and orders and that pale melancholy and red ruin appeared to
have marked him for their own. The troubadour took the news
thoughtfully. He had heard much about King James.

On the third day of the seven days of grace allowed him by the autocrat
of the range, old man Ellison drove his buckboard to Frio City to fetch
some necessary supplies for the ranch. Bradshaw was hard but not
implacable. He divided the old man’s order by two, and let him have a
little more time. One article secured was a new, fine ham for the
pleasure of the troubadour.

Five miles out of Frio City on his way home the old man met King James
riding into town. His majesty could never look anything but fierce and
menacing, but to-day his slits of eyes appeared to be a little wider
than they usually were.

“Good day,” said the king, gruffly. “I’ve been wanting to see you. I
hear it said by a cowman from Sandy yesterday that you was from Jackson
County, Mississippi, originally. I want to know if that’s a fact.”

“Born there,” said old man Ellison, “and raised there till I was
twenty-one.”

“This man says,” went on King James, “that he thinks you was related to
the Jackson County Reeveses. Was he right?”

“Aunt Caroline Reeves,” said the old man, “was my half-sister.”

“She was my aunt,” said King James. “I run away from home when I was
sixteen. Now, let’s re-talk over some things that we discussed a few
days ago. They call me a bad man; and they’re only half right. There’s
plenty of room in my pasture for your bunch of sheep and their increase
for a long time to come. Aunt Caroline used to cut out sheep in cake
dough and bake ’em for me. You keep your sheep where they are, and use
all the range you want. How’s your finances?”

The old man related his woes in detail, dignifiedly, with restraint and
candour.

“She used to smuggle extra grub into my school basket—I’m speaking of
Aunt Caroline,” said King James. “I’m going over to Frio City to-day,
and I’ll ride back by your ranch to-morrow. I’ll draw $2,000 out of the
bank there and bring it over to you; and I’ll tell Bradshaw to let you
have everything you want on credit. You are bound to have heard the old
saying at home, that the Jackson County Reeveses and Kings would stick
closer by each other than chestnut burrs. Well, I’m a King yet whenever
I run across a Reeves. So you look out for me along about sundown
to-morrow, and don’t worry about nothing. Shouldn’t wonder if the dry
spell don’t kill out the young grass.”

Old man Ellison drove happily ranchward. Once more the smiles filled
out his wrinkles. Very suddenly, by the magic of kinship and the good
that lies somewhere in all hearts, his troubles had been removed.

On reaching the ranch he found that Sam Galloway was not there. His
guitar hung by its buckskin string to a hackberry limb, moaning as the
gulf breeze blew across its masterless strings.

The Kiowa endeavoured to explain.

“Sam, he catch pony,” said he, “and say he ride to Frio City. What for
no can damn sabe. Say he come back to-night. Maybe so. That all.”

As the first stars came out the troubadour rode back to his haven. He
pastured his pony and went into the house, his spurs jingling
martially.

Old man Ellison sat at the kitchen table, having a tin cup of
before-supper coffee. He looked contented and pleased.

“Hello, Sam,” said he. “I’m darned glad to see ye back. I don’t know
how I managed to get along on this ranch, anyhow, before ye dropped in
to cheer things up. I’ll bet ye’ve been skylarking around with some of
them Frio City gals, now, that’s kept ye so late.”

And then old man Ellison took another look at Sam’s face and saw that
the minstrel had changed to the man of action.

And while Sam is unbuckling from his waist old man Ellison’s
six-shooter, that the latter had left behind when he drove to town, we
may well pause to remark that anywhere and whenever a troubadour lays
down the guitar and takes up the sword trouble is sure to follow. It is
not the expert thrust of Athos nor the cold skill of Aramis nor the
iron wrist of Porthos that we have to fear—it is the Gascon’s fury—the
wild and unacademic attack of the troubadour—the sword of D’Artagnan.

“I done it,” said Sam. “I went over to Frio City to do it. I couldn’t
let him put the skibunk on you, Uncle Ben. I met him in Summers’s
saloon. I knowed what to do. I said a few things to him that nobody
else heard. He reached for his gun first—half a dozen fellows saw him
do it—but I got mine unlimbered first. Three doses I gave him—right
around the lungs, and a saucer could have covered up all of ’em. He
won’t bother you no more.”

“This—is—King—James—you speak—of?” asked old man Ellison, while he
sipped his coffee.

“You bet it was. And they took me before the county judge; and the
witnesses what saw him draw his gun first was all there. Well, of
course, they put me under $300 bond to appear before the court, but
there was four or five boys on the spot ready to sign the bail. He
won’t bother you no more, Uncle Ben. You ought to have seen how close
them bullet holes was together. I reckon playing a guitar as much as I
do must kind of limber a fellow’s trigger finger up a little, don’t you
think, Uncle Ben?”

Then there was a little silence in the castle except for the
spluttering of a venison steak that the Kiowa was cooking.

“Sam,” said old man Ellison, stroking his white whiskers with a
tremulous hand, “would you mind getting the guitar and playing that
‘_Huile, huile, palomita_’ piece once or twice? It always seems to be
kind of soothing and comforting when a man’s tired and fagged out.”

There is no more to be said, except that the title of the story is
wrong. It should have been called “The Last of the Barons.” There never
will be an end to the troubadours; and now and then it does seem that
the jingle of their guitars will drown the sound of the muffled blows
of the pickaxes and trip hammers of all the Workers in the world.




II.
THE SLEUTHS


In The Big City a man will disappear with the suddenness and
completeness of the flame of a candle that is blown out. All the
agencies of inquisition—the hounds of the trail, the sleuths of the
city’s labyrinths, the closet detectives of theory and induction—will
be invoked to the search. Most often the man’s face will be seen no
more. Sometimes he will reappear in Sheboygan or in the wilds of Terre
Haute, calling himself one of the synonyms of “Smith,” and without
memory of events up to a certain time, including his grocer’s bill.
Sometimes it will be found, after dragging the rivers, and polling the
restaurants to see if he may be waiting for a well-done sirloin, that
he has moved next door.

This snuffing out of a human being like the erasure of a chalk man from
a blackboard is one of the most impressive themes in dramaturgy.

The case of Mary Snyder, in point, should not be without interest.

A man of middle age, of the name of Meeks, came from the West to New
York to find his sister, Mrs. Mary Snyder, a widow, aged fifty-two, who
had been living for a year in a tenement house in a crowded
neighbourhood.

At her address he was told that Mary Snyder had moved away longer than
a month before. No one could tell him her new address.

On coming out Mr. Meeks addressed a policeman who was standing on the
corner, and explained his dilemma.

“My sister is very poor,” he said, “and I am anxious to find her. I
have recently made quite a lot of money in a lead mine, and I want her
to share my prosperity. There is no use in advertising her, because she
cannot read.”

The policeman pulled his moustache and looked so thoughtful and mighty
that Meeks could almost feel the joyful tears of his sister Mary
dropping upon his bright blue tie.

“You go down in the Canal Street neighbourhood,” said the policeman,
“and get a job drivin’ the biggest dray you can find. There’s old women
always gettin’ knocked over by drays down there. You might see ’er
among ’em. If you don’t want to do that you better go ’round to
headquarters and get ’em to put a fly cop onto the dame.”

At police headquarters, Meeks received ready assistance. A general
alarm was sent out, and copies of a photograph of Mary Snyder that her
brother had were distributed among the stations. In Mulberry Street the
chief assigned Detective Mullins to the case.

The detective took Meeks aside and said:

“This is not a very difficult case to unravel. Shave off your whiskers,
fill your pockets with good cigars, and meet me in the café of the
Waldorf at three o’clock this afternoon.”

Meeks obeyed. He found Mullins there. They had a bottle of wine, while
the detective asked questions concerning the missing woman.

“Now,” said Mullins, “New York is a big city, but we’ve got the
detective business systematized. There are two ways we can go about
finding your sister. We will try one of ’em first. You say she’s
fifty-two?”

“A little past,” said Meeks.

The detective conducted the Westerner to a branch advertising office of
one of the largest dailies. There he wrote the following “ad” and
submitted it to Meeks:

“Wanted, at once—one hundred attractive chorus girls for a new musical
comedy. Apply all day at No. –––– Broadway.”

Meeks was indignant.

“My sister,” said he, “is a poor, hard-working, elderly woman. I do not
see what aid an advertisement of this kind would be toward finding
her.”

“All right,” said the detective. “I guess you don’t know New York. But
if you’ve got a grouch against this scheme we’ll try the other one.
It’s a sure thing. But it’ll cost you more.”

“Never mind the expense,” said Meeks; “we’ll try it.”

The sleuth led him back to the Waldorf. “Engage a couple of bedrooms
and a parlour,” he advised, “and let’s go up.”

This was done, and the two were shown to a superb suite on the fourth
floor. Meeks looked puzzled. The detective sank into a velvet armchair,
and pulled out his cigar case.

“I forgot to suggest, old man,” he said, “that you should have taken
the rooms by the month. They wouldn’t have stuck you so much for ’em.

“By the month!” exclaimed Meeks. “What do you mean?”

“Oh, it’ll take time to work the game this way. I told you it would
cost you more. We’ll have to wait till spring. There’ll be a new city
directory out then. Very likely your sister’s name and address will be
in it.”

Meeks rid himself of the city detective at once. On the next day some
one advised him to consult Shamrock Jolnes, New York’s famous private
detective, who demanded fabulous fees, but performed miracles in the
way of solving mysteries and crimes.

After waiting for two hours in the anteroom of the great detective’s
apartment, Meeks was shown into his presence. Jolnes sat in a purple
dressing-gown at an inlaid ivory chess table, with a magazine before
him, trying to solve the mystery of “They.” The famous sleuth’s thin,
intellectual face, piercing eyes, and rate per word are too well known
to need description.

Meeks set forth his errand. “My fee, if successful, will be $500,” said
Shamrock Jolnes.

Meeks bowed his agreement to the price.

“I will undertake your case, Mr. Meeks,” said Jolnes, finally. “The
disappearance of people in this city has always been an interesting
problem to me. I remember a case that I brought to a successful outcome
a year ago. A family bearing the name of Clark disappeared suddenly
from a small flat in which they were living. I watched the flat
building for two months for a clue. One day it struck me that a certain
milkman and a grocer’s boy always walked backward when they carried
their wares upstairs. Following out by induction the idea that this
observation gave me, I at once located the missing family. They had
moved into the flat across the hall and changed their name to Kralc.”

Shamrock Jolnes and his client went to the tenement house where Mary
Snyder had lived, and the detective demanded to be shown the room in
which she had lived. It had been occupied by no tenant since her
disappearance.

The room was small, dingy, and poorly furnished. Meeks seated himself
dejectedly on a broken chair, while the great detective searched the
walls and floor and the few sticks of old, rickety furniture for a
clue.

At the end of half an hour Jolnes had collected a few seemingly
unintelligible articles—a cheap black hat pin, a piece torn off a
theatre programme, and the end of a small torn card on which was the
word “left” and the characters “C 12.”

Shamrock Jolnes leaned against the mantel for ten minutes, with his
head resting upon his hand, and an absorbed look upon his intellectual
face. At the end of that time he exclaimed, with animation:

“Come, Mr. Meeks; the problem is solved. I can take you directly to the
house where your sister is living. And you may have no fears concerning
her welfare, for she is amply provided with funds—for the present at
least.”

Meeks felt joy and wonder in equal proportions.

“How did you manage it?” he asked, with admiration in his tones.

Perhaps Jolnes’s only weakness was a professional pride in his
wonderful achievements in induction. He was ever ready to astound and
charm his listeners by describing his methods.

“By elimination,” said Jolnes, spreading his clues upon a little table,
“I got rid of certain parts of the city to which Mrs. Snyder might have
removed. You see this hatpin? That eliminates Brooklyn. No woman
attempts to board a car at the Brooklyn Bridge without being sure that
she carries a hatpin with which to fight her way into a seat. And now I
will demonstrate to you that she could not have gone to Harlem. Behind
this door are two hooks in the wall. Upon one of these Mrs. Snyder has
hung her bonnet, and upon the other her shawl. You will observe that
the bottom of the hanging shawl has gradually made a soiled streak
against the plastered wall. The mark is clean-cut, proving that there
is no fringe on the shawl. Now, was there ever a case where a
middle-aged woman, wearing a shawl, boarded a Harlem train without
there being a fringe on the shawl to catch in the gate and delay the
passengers behind her? So we eliminate Harlem.

“Therefore I conclude that Mrs. Snyder has not moved very far away. On
this torn piece of card you see the word ‘Left,’ the letter ‘C,’ and
the number ‘12.’ Now, I happen to know that No. 12 Avenue C is a
first-class boarding house, far beyond your sister’s means—as we
suppose. But then I find this piece of a theatre programme, crumpled
into an odd shape. What meaning does it convey. None to you, very
likely, Mr. Meeks; but it is eloquent to one whose habits and training
take cognizance of the smallest things.

“You have told me that your sister was a scrub woman. She scrubbed the
floors of offices and hallways. Let us assume that she procured such
work to perform in a theatre. Where is valuable jewellery lost the
oftenest, Mr. Meeks? In the theatres, of course. Look at that piece of
programme, Mr. Meeks. Observe the round impression in it. It has been
wrapped around a ring—perhaps a ring of great value. Mrs. Snyder found
the ring while at work in the theatre. She hastily tore off a piece of
a programme, wrapped the ring carefully, and thrust it into her bosom.
The next day she disposed of it, and, with her increased means, looked
about her for a more comfortable place in which to live. When I reach
thus far in the chain I see nothing impossible about No. 12 Avenue C.
It is there we will find your sister, Mr. Meeks.”

Shamrock Jolnes concluded his convincing speech with the smile of a
successful artist. Meeks’s admiration was too great for words. Together
they went to No. 12 Avenue C. It was an old-fashioned brownstone house
in a prosperous and respectable neighbourhood.

They rang the bell, and on inquiring were told that no Mrs. Snyder was
known there, and that not within six months had a new occupant come to
the house.

When they reached the sidewalk again, Meeks examined the clues which he
had brought away from his sister’s old room.

“I am no detective,” he remarked to Jolnes as he raised the piece of
theatre programme to his nose, “but it seems to me that instead of a
ring having been wrapped in this paper it was one of those round
peppermint drops. And this piece with the address on it looks to me
like the end of a seat coupon—No. 12, row C, left aisle.”

Shamrock Jolnes had a far-away look in his eyes.

“I think you would do well to consult Juggins,” said he.

“Who is Juggins?” asked Meeks.

“He is the leader,” said Jolnes, “of a new modern school of detectives.
Their methods are different from ours, but it is said that Juggins has
solved some extremely puzzling cases. I will take you to him.”

They found the greater Juggins in his office. He was a small man with
light hair, deeply absorbed in reading one of the bourgeois works of
Nathaniel Hawthorne.

The two great detectives of different schools shook hands with
ceremony, and Meeks was introduced.

“State the facts,” said Juggins, going on with his reading.

When Meeks ceased, the greater one closed his book and said:

“Do I understand that your sister is fifty-two years of age, with a
large mole on the side of her nose, and that she is a very poor widow,
making a scanty living by scrubbing, and with a very homely face and
figure?”

“That describes her exactly,” admitted Meeks. Juggins rose and put on
his hat.

“In fifteen minutes,” he said, “I will return, bringing you her present
address.”

Shamrock Jolnes turned pale, but forced a smile.

Within the specified time Juggins returned and consulted a little slip
of paper held in his hand.

“Your sister, Mary Snyder,” he announced calmly, “will be found at No.
162 Chilton street. She is living in the back hall bedroom, five
flights up. The house is only four blocks from here,” he continued,
addressing Meeks. “Suppose you go and verify the statement and then
return here. Mr. Jolnes will await you, I dare say.”

Meeks hurried away. In twenty minutes he was back again, with a beaming
face.

“She is there and well!” he cried. “Name your fee!”

“Two dollars,” said Juggins.

When Meeks had settled his bill and departed, Shamrock Jolnes stood
with his hat in his hand before Juggins.

“If it would not be asking too much,” he stammered—“if you would favour
me so far—would you object to—”

“Certainly not,” said Juggins pleasantly. “I will tell you how I did
it. You remember the description of Mrs. Snyder? Did you ever know a
woman like that who wasn’t paying weekly instalments on an enlarged
crayon portrait of herself? The biggest factory of that kind in the
country is just around the corner. I went there and got her address off
the books. That’s all.”




III.
WITCHES’ LOAVES


Miss Martha Meacham kept the little bakery on the corner (the one where
you go up three steps, and the bell tinkles when you open the door).

Miss Martha was forty, her bank-book showed a credit of two thousand
dollars, and she possessed two false teeth and a sympathetic heart.
Many people have married whose chances to do so were much inferior to
Miss Martha’s.

Two or three times a week a customer came in in whom she began to take
an interest. He was a middle-aged man, wearing spectacles and a brown
beard trimmed to a careful point.

He spoke English with a strong German accent. His clothes were worn and
darned in places, and wrinkled and baggy in others. But he looked neat,
and had very good manners.

He always bought two loaves of stale bread. Fresh bread was five cents
a loaf. Stale ones were two for five. Never did he call for anything
but stale bread.

Once Miss Martha saw a red and brown stain on his fingers. She was sure
then that he was an artist and very poor. No doubt he lived in a
garret, where he painted pictures and ate stale bread and thought of
the good things to eat in Miss Martha’s bakery.

Often when Miss Martha sat down to her chops and light rolls and jam
and tea she would sigh, and wish that the gentle-mannered artist might
share her tasty meal instead of eating his dry crust in that draughty
attic. Miss Martha’s heart, as you have been told, was a sympathetic
one.

In order to test her theory as to his occupation, she brought from her
room one day a painting that she had bought at a sale, and set it
against the shelves behind the bread counter.

It was a Venetian scene. A splendid marble palazzio (so it said on the
picture) stood in the foreground—or rather forewater. For the rest
there were gondolas (with the lady trailing her hand in the water),
clouds, sky, and chiaro-oscuro in plenty. No artist could fail to
notice it.

Two days afterward the customer came in.

“Two loafs of stale bread, if you blease.

“You haf here a fine bicture, madame,” he said while she was wrapping
up the bread.

“Yes?” says Miss Martha, revelling in her own cunning. “I do so admire
art and” (no, it would not do to say “artists” thus early) “and
paintings,” she substituted. “You think it is a good picture?”

“Der balance,” said the customer, “is not in good drawing. Der
bairspective of it is not true. Goot morning, madame.”

He took his bread, bowed, and hurried out.

Yes, he must be an artist. Miss Martha took the picture back to her
room.

How gentle and kindly his eyes shone behind his spectacles! What a
broad brow he had! To be able to judge perspective at a glance—and to
live on stale bread! But genius often has to struggle before it is
recognized.

What a thing it would be for art and perspective if genius were backed
by two thousand dollars in bank, a bakery, and a sympathetic heart to—
But these were day-dreams, Miss Martha.

Often now when he came he would chat for a while across the showcase.
He seemed to crave Miss Martha’s cheerful words.

He kept on buying stale bread. Never a cake, never a pie, never one of
her delicious Sally Lunns.

She thought he began to look thinner and discouraged. Her heart ached
to add something good to eat to his meagre purchase, but her courage
failed at the act. She did not dare affront him. She knew the pride of
artists.

Miss Martha took to wearing her blue-dotted silk waist behind the
counter. In the back room she cooked a mysterious compound of quince
seeds and borax. Ever so many people use it for the complexion.

One day the customer came in as usual, laid his nickel on the showcase,
and called for his stale loaves. While Miss Martha was reaching for
them there was a great tooting and clanging, and a fire-engine came
lumbering past.

The customer hurried to the door to look, as any one will. Suddenly
inspired, Miss Martha seized the opportunity.

On the bottom shelf behind the counter was a pound of fresh butter that
the dairyman had left ten minutes before. With a bread knife Miss
Martha made a deep slash in each of the stale loaves, inserted a
generous quantity of butter, and pressed the loaves tight again.

When the customer turned once more she was tying the paper around them.

When he had gone, after an unusually pleasant little chat, Miss Martha
smiled to herself, but not without a slight fluttering of the heart.

Had she been too bold? Would he take offense? But surely not. There was
no language of edibles. Butter was no emblem of unmaidenly forwardness.

For a long time that day her mind dwelt on the subject. She imagined
the scene when he should discover her little deception.

He would lay down his brushes and palette. There would stand his easel
with the picture he was painting in which the perspective was beyond
criticism.

He would prepare for his luncheon of dry bread and water. He would
slice into a loaf—ah!

Miss Martha blushed. Would he think of the hand that placed it there as
he ate? Would he—

The front door bell jangled viciously. Somebody was coming in, making a
great deal of noise.

Miss Martha hurried to the front. Two men were there. One was a young
man smoking a pipe—a man she had never seen before. The other was her
artist.

His face was very red, his hat was on the back of his head, his hair
was wildly rumpled. He clinched his two fists and shook them
ferociously at Miss Martha. _At Miss Martha_.

“_Dummkopf!_” he shouted with extreme loudness; and then
“_Tausendonfer!_” or something like it in German.

The young man tried to draw him away.

“I vill not go,” he said angrily, “else I shall told her.”

He made a bass drum of Miss Martha’s counter.

“You haf shpoilt me,” he cried, his blue eyes blazing behind his
spectacles. “I vill tell you. You vas von _meddingsome old cat!_”

Miss Martha leaned weakly against the shelves and laid one hand on her
blue-dotted silk waist. The young man took the other by the collar.

“Come on,” he said, “you’ve said enough.” He dragged the angry one out
at the door to the sidewalk, and then came back.

“Guess you ought to be told, ma’am,” he said, “what the row is about.
That’s Blumberger. He’s an architectural draftsman. I work in the same
office with him.

“He’s been working hard for three months drawing a plan for a new city
hall. It was a prize competition. He finished inking the lines
yesterday. You know, a draftsman always makes his drawing in pencil
first. When it’s done he rubs out the pencil lines with handfuls of
stale bread crumbs. That’s better than India rubber.

“Blumberger’s been buying the bread here. Well, to-day—well, you know,
ma’am, that butter isn’t—well, Blumberger’s plan isn’t good for
anything now except to cut up into railroad sandwiches.”

Miss Martha went into the back room. She took off the blue-dotted silk
waist and put on the old brown serge she used to wear. Then she poured
the quince seed and borax mixture out of the window into the ash can.




IV.
THE PRIDE OF THE CITIES


Said Mr. Kipling, “The cities are full of pride, challenging each to
each.” Even so.

New York was empty. Two hundred thousand of its people were away for
the summer. Three million eight hundred thousand remained as caretakers
and to pay the bills of the absentees. But the two hundred thousand are
an expensive lot.

The New Yorker sat at a roof-garden table, ingesting solace through a
straw. His panama lay upon a chair. The July audience was scattered
among vacant seats as widely as outfielders when the champion batter
steps to the plate. Vaudeville happened at intervals. The breeze was
cool from the bay; around and above—everywhere except on the stage—were
stars. Glimpses were to be had of waiters, always disappearing, like
startled chamois. Prudent visitors who had ordered refreshments by
’phone in the morning were now being served. The New Yorker was aware
of certain drawbacks to his comfort, but content beamed softly from his
rimless eyeglasses. His family was out of town. The drinks were warm;
the ballet was suffering from lack of both tune and talcum—but his
family would not return until September.

Then up into the garden stumbled the man from Topaz City, Nevada. The
gloom of the solitary sightseer enwrapped him. Bereft of joy through
loneliness, he stalked with a widower’s face through the halls of
pleasure. Thirst for human companionship possessed him as he panted in
the metropolitan draught. Straight to the New Yorker’s table he
steered.

The New Yorker, disarmed and made reckless by the lawless atmosphere of
a roof garden, decided upon utter abandonment of his life’s traditions.
He resolved to shatter with one rash, dare-devil, impulsive,
hair-brained act the conventions that had hitherto been woven into his
existence. Carrying out this radical and precipitous inspiration he
nodded slightly to the stranger as he drew nearer the table.

The next moment found the man from Topaz City in the list of the New
Yorker’s closest friends. He took a chair at the table, he gathered two
others for his feet, he tossed his broad-brimmed hat upon a fourth, and
told his life’s history to his new-found pard.

The New Yorker warmed a little, as an apartment-house furnace warms
when the strawberry season begins. A waiter who came within hail in an
unguarded moment was captured and paroled on an errand to the Doctor
Wiley experimental station. The ballet was now in the midst of a
musical vagary, and danced upon the stage programmed as Bolivian
peasants, clothed in some portions of its anatomy as Norwegian fisher
maidens, in others as ladies-in-waiting of Marie Antoinette,
historically denuded in other portions so as to represent sea nymphs,
and presenting the _tout ensemble_ of a social club of Central Park
West housemaids at a fish fry.

“Been in the city long?” inquired the New Yorker, getting ready the
exact tip against the waiter’s coming with large change from the bill.

“Me?” said the man from Topaz City. “Four days. Never in Topaz City,
was you?”

“I!” said the New Yorker. “I was never farther west than Eighth Avenue.
I had a brother who died on Ninth, but I met the cortege at Eighth.
There was a bunch of violets on the hearse, and the undertaker
mentioned the incident to avoid mistake. I cannot say that I am
familiar with the West.”

“Topaz City,” said the man who occupied four chairs, “is one of the
finest towns in the world.”

“I presume that you have seen the sights of the metropolis,” said the
New Yorker, “Four days is not a sufficient length of time in which to
view even our most salient points of interest, but one can possibly
form a general impression. Our architectural supremacy is what
generally strikes visitors to our city most forcibly. Of course you
have seen our Flatiron Building. It is considered—”

“Saw it,” said the man from Topaz City. “But you ought to come out our
way. It’s mountainous, you know, and the ladies all wear short skirts
for climbing and—”

“Excuse me,” said the New Yorker, “but that isn’t exactly the point.
New York must be a wonderful revelation to a visitor from the West.
Now, as to our hotels—”

“Say,” said the man from Topaz City, “that reminds me—there were
sixteen stage robbers shot last year within twenty miles of—”

“I was speaking of hotels,” said the New Yorker. “We lead Europe in
that respect. And as far as our leisure class is concerned we are far—”

“Oh, I don’t know,” interrupted the man from Topaz City. “There were
twelve tramps in our jail when I left home. I guess New York isn’t so—”

“Beg pardon, you seem to misapprehend the idea. Of course, you visited
the Stock Exchange and Wall Street, where the—”

“Oh, yes,” said the man from Topaz City, as he lighted a Pennsylvania
stogie, “and I want to tell you that we’ve got the finest town marshal
west of the Rockies. Bill Rainer he took in five pickpockets out of the
crowd when Red Nose Thompson laid the cornerstone of his new saloon.
Topaz City don’t allow—”

“Have another Rhine wine and seltzer,” suggested the New Yorker. “I’ve
never been West, as I said; but there can’t be any place out there to
compare with New York. As to the claims of Chicago I—”

“One man,” said the Topazite—“one man only has been murdered and robbed
in Topaz City in the last three—”

“Oh, I know what Chicago is,” interposed the New Yorker. “Have you been
up Fifth Avenue to see the magnificent residences of our mil—”

“Seen ’em all. You ought to know Reub Stegall, the assessor of Topaz.
When old man Tilbury, that owns the only two-story house in town, tried
to swear his taxes from $6,000 down to $450.75, Reub buckled on his
forty-five and went down to see—”

“Yes, yes, but speaking of our great city—one of its greatest features
is our superb police department. There is no body of men in the world
that can equal it for—”

“That waiter gets around like a Langley flying machine,” remarked the
man from Topaz City, thirstily. “We’ve got men in our town, too, worth
$400,000. There’s old Bill Withers and Colonel Metcalf and—”

“Have you seen Broadway at night?” asked the New Yorker, courteously.
“There are few streets in the world that can compare with it. When the
electrics are shining and the pavements are alive with two hurrying
streams of elegantly clothed men and beautiful women attired in the
costliest costumes that wind in and out in a close maze of
expensively—”

“Never knew but one case in Topaz City,” said the man from the West.
“Jim Bailey, our mayor, had his watch and chain and $235 in cash taken
from his pocket while—”

“That’s another matter,” said the New Yorker. “While you are in our
city you should avail yourself of every opportunity to see its wonders.
Our rapid transit system—”

“If you was out in Topaz,” broke in the man from there, “I could show
you a whole cemetery full of people that got killed accidentally.
Talking about mangling folks up! why, when Berry Rogers turned loose
that old double-barrelled shot-gun of his loaded with slugs at
anybody—”

“Here, waiter!” called the New Yorker. “Two more of the same. It is
acknowledged by every one that our city is the centre of art, and
literature, and learning. Take, for instance, our after-dinner
speakers. Where else in the country would you find such wit and
eloquence as emanate from Depew and Ford, and—”

“If you take the papers,” interrupted the Westerner, “you must have
read of Pete Webster’s daughter. The Websters live two blocks north of
the court-house in Topaz City. Miss Tillie Webster, she slept forty
days and nights without waking up. The doctors said that—”

“Pass the matches, please,” said the New Yorker. “Have you observed the
expedition with which new buildings are being run up in New York?
Improved inventions in steel framework and—”

“I noticed,” said the Nevadian, “that the statistics of Topaz City
showed only one carpenter crushed by falling timbers last year and he
was caught in a cyclone.”

“They abuse our sky line,” continued the New Yorker, “and it is likely
that we are not yet artistic in the construction of our buildings. But
I can safely assert that we lead in pictorial and decorative art. In
some of our houses can be found masterpieces in the way of paintings
and sculpture. One who has the entree to our best galleries will find—”

“Back up,” exclaimed the man from Topaz City. “There was a game last
month in our town in which $90,000 changed hands on a pair of—”

“Ta-romt-tara!” went the orchestra. The stage curtain, blushing pink at
the name “Asbestos” inscribed upon it, came down with a slow midsummer
movement. The audience trickled leisurely down the elevator and stairs.

On the sidewalk below, the New Yorker and the man from Topaz City shook
hands with alcoholic gravity. The elevated crashed raucously, surface
cars hummed and clanged, cabmen swore, newsboys shrieked, wheels
clattered ear-piercingly. The New Yorker conceived a happy thought,
with which he aspired to clinch the pre-eminence of his city.

“You must admit,” said he, “that in the way of noise New York is far
ahead of any other—”

“Back to the everglades!” said the man from Topaz City. “In 1900, when
Sousa’s band and the repeating candidate were in our town you
couldn’t—”

The rattle of an express wagon drowned the rest of the words.




V.
HOLDING UP A TRAIN


Note. The man who told me these things was for several years an outlaw
in the Southwest and a follower of the pursuit he so frankly describes.
His description of the _modus operandi_ should prove interesting, his
counsel of value to the potential passenger in some future “hold-up,”
while his estimate of the pleasures of train robbing will hardly induce
any one to adopt it as a profession. I give the story in almost exactly
his own words.
O. H.


Most people would say, if their opinion was asked for, that holding up
a train would be a hard job. Well, it isn’t; it’s easy. I have
contributed some to the uneasiness of railroads and the insomnia of
express companies, and the most trouble I ever had about a hold-up was
in being swindled by unscrupulous people while spending the money I
got. The danger wasn’t anything to speak of, and we didn’t mind the
trouble.

One man has come pretty near robbing a train by himself; two have
succeeded a few times; three can do it if they are hustlers, but five
is about the right number. The time to do it and the place depend upon
several things.

The first “stick-up” I was ever in happened in 1890. Maybe the way I
got into it will explain how most train robbers start in the business.
Five out of six Western outlaws are just cowboys out of a job and gone
wrong. The sixth is a tough from the East who dresses up like a bad man
and plays some low-down trick that gives the boys a bad name. Wire
fences and “nesters” made five of them; a bad heart made the sixth.

Jim S–––– and I were working on the 101 Ranch in Colorado. The nesters
had the cowman on the go. They had taken up the land and elected
officers who were hard to get along with. Jim and I rode into La Junta
one day, going south from a round-up. We were having a little fun
without malice toward anybody when a farmer administration cut in and
tried to harvest us. Jim shot a deputy marshal, and I kind of
corroborated his side of the argument. We skirmished up and down the
main street, the boomers having bad luck all the time. After a while we
leaned forward and shoved for the ranch down on the Ceriso. We were
riding a couple of horses that couldn’t fly, but they could catch
birds.

A few days after that, a gang of the La Junta boomers came to the ranch
and wanted us to go back with them. Naturally, we declined. We had the
house on them, and before we were done refusing, that old ’dobe was
plumb full of lead. When dark came we fagged ’em a batch of bullets and
shoved out the back door for the rocks. They sure smoked us as we went.
We had to drift, which we did, and rounded up down in Oklahoma.

Well, there wasn’t anything we could get there, and, being mighty hard
up, we decided to transact a little business with the railroads. Jim
and I joined forces with Tom and Ike Moore—two brothers who had plenty
of sand they were willing to convert into dust. I can call their names,
for both of them are dead. Tom was shot while robbing a bank in
Arkansas; Ike was killed during the more dangerous pastime of attending
a dance in the Creek Nation.

We selected a place on the Santa Fé where there was a bridge across a
deep creek surrounded by heavy timber. All passenger trains took water
at the tank close to one end of the bridge. It was a quiet place, the
nearest house being five miles away. The day before it happened, we
rested our horses and “made medicine” as to how we should get about it.
Our plans were not at all elaborate, as none of us had ever engaged in
a hold-up before.

The Santa Fé flyer was due at the tank at 11.15 p. m. At eleven, Tom
and I lay down on one side of the track, and Jim and Ike took the
other. As the train rolled up, the headlight flashing far down the
track and the steam hissing from the engine, I turned weak all over. I
would have worked a whole year on the ranch for nothing to have been
out of that affair right then. Some of the nerviest men in the business
have told me that they felt the same way the first time.

The engine had hardly stopped when I jumped on the running-board on one
side, while Jim mounted the other. As soon as the engineer and fireman
saw our guns they threw up their hands without being told, and begged
us not to shoot, saying they would do anything we wanted them to.

“Hit the ground,” I ordered, and they both jumped off. We drove them
before us down the side of the train. While this was happening, Tom and
Ike had been blazing away, one on each side of the train, yelling like
Apaches, so as to keep the passengers herded in the cars. Some fellow
stuck a little twenty-two calibre out one of the coach windows and
fired it straight up in the air. I let drive and smashed the glass just
over his head. That settled everything like resistance from that
direction.

By this time all my nervousness was gone. I felt a kind of pleasant
excitement as if I were at a dance or a frolic of some sort. The lights
were all out in the coaches, and, as Tom and Ike gradually quit firing
and yelling, it got to be almost as still as a graveyard. I remember
hearing a little bird chirping in a bush at the side of the track, as
if it were complaining at being waked up.

I made the fireman get a lantern, and then I went to the express car
and yelled to the messenger to open up or get perforated. He slid the
door back and stood in it with his hands up. “Jump overboard, son,” I
said, and he hit the dirt like a lump of lead. There were two safes in
the car—a big one and a little one. By the way, I first located the
messenger’s arsenal—a double-barrelled shot-gun with buckshot
cartridges and a thirty-eight in a drawer. I drew the cartridges from
the shot-gun, pocketed the pistol, and called the messenger inside. I
shoved my gun against his nose and put him to work. He couldn’t open
the big safe, but he did the little one. There was only nine hundred
dollars in it. That was mighty small winnings for our trouble, so we
decided to go through the passengers. We took our prisoners to the
smoking-car, and from there sent the engineer through the train to
light up the coaches. Beginning with the first one, we placed a man at
each door and ordered the passengers to stand between the seats with
their hands up.

If you want to find out what cowards the majority of men are, all you
have to do is rob a passenger train. I don’t mean because they don’t
resist—I’ll tell you later on why they can’t do that—but it makes a man
feel sorry for them the way they lose their heads. Big, burly drummers
and farmers and ex-soldiers and high-collared dudes and sports that, a
few moments before, were filling the car with noise and bragging, get
so scared that their ears flop.

There were very few people in the day coaches at that time of night, so
we made a slim haul until we got to the sleeper. The Pullman conductor
met me at one door while Jim was going round to the other one. He very
politely informed me that I could not go into that car, as it did not
belong to the railroad company, and, besides, the passengers had
already been greatly disturbed by the shouting and firing. Never in all
my life have I met with a finer instance of official dignity and
reliance upon the power of Mr. Pullman’s great name. I jabbed my
six-shooter so hard against Mr. Conductor’s front that I afterward
found one of his vest buttons so firmly wedged in the end of the barrel
that I had to shoot it out. He just shut up like a weak-springed knife
and rolled down the car steps.

I opened the door of the sleeper and stepped inside. A big, fat old man
came wabbling up to me, puffing and blowing. He had one coat-sleeve on
and was trying to put his vest on over that. I don’t know who he
thought I was.

“Young man, young man,” says he, “you must keep cool and not get
excited. Above everything, keep cool.”

“I can’t,” says I. “Excitement’s just eating me up.” And then I let out
a yell and turned loose my forty-five through the skylight.

That old man tried to dive into one of the lower berths, but a screech
came out of it and a bare foot that took him in the bread-basket and
landed him on the floor. I saw Jim coming in the other door, and I
hollered for everybody to climb out and line up.

They commenced to scramble down, and for a while we had a three-ringed
circus. The men looked as frightened and tame as a lot of rabbits in a
deep snow. They had on, on an average, about a quarter of a suit of
clothes and one shoe apiece. One chap was sitting on the floor of the
aisle, looking as if he were working a hard sum in arithmetic. He was
trying, very solemn, to pull a lady’s number two shoe on his number
nine foot.

The ladies didn’t stop to dress. They were so curious to see a real,
live train robber, bless ’em, that they just wrapped blankets and
sheets around themselves and came out, squeaky and fidgety looking.
They always show more curiosity and sand than the men do.

We got them all lined up and pretty quiet, and I went through the
bunch. I found very little on them—I mean in the way of valuables. One
man in the line was a sight. He was one of those big, overgrown, solemn
snoozers that sit on the platform at lectures and look wise. Before
crawling out he had managed to put on his long, frock-tailed coat and
his high silk hat. The rest of him was nothing but pajamas and bunions.
When I dug into that Prince Albert, I expected to drag out at least a
block of gold mine stock or an armful of Government bonds, but all I
found was a little boy’s French harp about four inches long. What it
was there for, I don’t know. I felt a little mad because he had fooled
me so. I stuck the harp up against his mouth.

“If you can’t pay—play,” I says.

“I can’t play,” says he.

“Then learn right off quick,” says I, letting him smell the end of my
gun-barrel.

He caught hold of the harp, turned red as a beet, and commenced to
blow. He blew a dinky little tune I remembered hearing when I was a
kid:


Prettiest little gal in the country—oh!
Mammy and Daddy told me so.


I made him keep on playing it all the time we were in the car. Now and
then he’d get weak and off the key, and I’d turn my gun on him and ask
what was the matter with that little gal, and whether he had any
intention of going back on her, which would make him start up again
like sixty. I think that old boy standing there in his silk hat and
bare feet, playing his little French harp, was the funniest sight I
ever saw. One little red-headed woman in the line broke out laughing at
him. You could have heard her in the next car.

Then Jim held them steady while I searched the berths. I grappled
around in those beds and filled a pillow-case with the strangest
assortment of stuff you ever saw. Now and then I’d come across a little
pop-gun pistol, just about right for plugging teeth with, which I’d
throw out the window. When I finished with the collection, I dumped the
pillow-case load in the middle of the aisle. There were a good many
watches, bracelets, rings, and pocket-books, with a sprinkling of false
teeth, whiskey flasks, face-powder boxes, chocolate caramels, and heads
of hair of various colours and lengths. There were also about a dozen
ladies’ stockings into which jewellery, watches, and rolls of bills had
been stuffed and then wadded up tight and stuck under the mattresses. I
offered to return what I called the “scalps,” saying that we were not
Indians on the war-path, but none of the ladies seemed to know to whom
the hair belonged.

One of the women—and a good-looker she was—wrapped in a striped
blanket, saw me pick up one of the stockings that was pretty chunky and
heavy about the toe, and she snapped out:

“That’s mine, sir. You’re not in the business of robbing women, are
you?”

Now, as this was our first hold-up, we hadn’t agreed upon any code of
ethics, so I hardly knew what to answer. But, anyway, I replied: “Well,
not as a specialty. If this contains your personal property you can
have it back.”

“It just does,” she declared eagerly, and reached out her hand for it.

“You’ll excuse my taking a look at the contents,” I said, holding the
stocking up by the toe. Out dumped a big gent’s gold watch, worth two
hundred, a gent’s leather pocket-book that we afterward found to
contain six hundred dollars, a 32-calibre revolver; and the only thing
of the lot that could have been a lady’s personal property was a silver
bracelet worth about fifty cents.

I said: “Madame, here’s your property,” and handed her the bracelet.
“Now,” I went on, “how can you expect us to act square with you when
you try to deceive us in this manner? I’m surprised at such conduct.”

The young woman flushed up as if she had been caught doing something
dishonest. Some other woman down the line called out: “The mean thing!”
I never knew whether she meant the other lady or me.

When we finished our job we ordered everybody back to bed, told ’em
good night very politely at the door, and left. We rode forty miles
before daylight and then divided the stuff. Each one of us got
$1,752.85 in money. We lumped the jewellery around. Then we scattered,
each man for himself.

That was my first train robbery, and it was about as easily done as any
of the ones that followed. But that was the last and only time I ever
went through the passengers. I don’t like that part of the business.
Afterward I stuck strictly to the express car. During the next eight
years I handled a good deal of money.

The best haul I made was just seven years after the first one. We found
out about a train that was going to bring out a lot of money to pay off
the soldiers at a Government post. We stuck that train up in broad
daylight. Five of us lay in the sand hills near a little station. Ten
soldiers were guarding the money on the train, but they might just as
well have been at home on a furlough. We didn’t even allow them to
stick their heads out the windows to see the fun. We had no trouble at
all in getting the money, which was all in gold. Of course, a big howl
was raised at the time about the robbery. It was Government stuff, and
the Government got sarcastic and wanted to know what the convoy of
soldiers went along for. The only excuse given was that nobody was
expecting an attack among those bare sand hills in daytime. I don’t
know what the Government thought about the excuse, but I know that it
was a good one. The surprise—that is the keynote of the train-robbing
business. The papers published all kinds of stories about the loss,
finally agreeing that it was between nine thousand and ten thousand
dollars. The Government sawed wood. Here are the correct figures,
printed for the first time—forty-eight thousand dollars. If anybody
will take the trouble to look over Uncle Sam’s private accounts for
that little debit to profit and loss, he will find that I am right to a
cent.

By that time we were expert enough to know what to do. We rode due west
twenty miles, making a trail that a Broadway policeman could have
followed, and then we doubled back, hiding our tracks. On the second
night after the hold-up, while posses were scouring the country in
every direction, Jim and I were eating supper in the second story of a
friend’s house in the town where the alarm started from. Our friend
pointed out to us, in an office across the street, a printing press at
work striking off handbills offering a reward for our capture.

I have been asked what we do with the money we get. Well, I never could
account for a tenth part of it after it was spent. It goes fast and
freely. An outlaw has to have a good many friends. A highly respected
citizen may, and often does, get along with very few, but a man on the
dodge has got to have “sidekickers.” With angry posses and
reward-hungry officers cutting out a hot trail for him, he must have a
few places scattered about the country where he can stop and feed
himself and his horse and get a few hours’ sleep without having to keep
both eyes open. When he makes a haul he feels like dropping some of the
coin with these friends, and he does it liberally. Sometimes I have, at
the end of a hasty visit at one of these havens of refuge, flung a
handful of gold and bills into the laps of the kids playing on the
floor, without knowing whether my contribution was a hundred dollars or
a thousand.

When old-timers make a big haul they generally go far away to one of
the big cities to spend their money. Green hands, however successful a
hold-up they make, nearly always give themselves away by showing too
much money near the place where they got it.

I was in a job in ’94 where we got twenty thousand dollars. We followed
our favourite plan for a get-away—that is, doubled on our trail—and
laid low for a time near the scene of the train’s bad luck. One morning
I picked up a newspaper and read an article with big headlines stating
that the marshal, with eight deputies and a posse of thirty armed
citizens, had the train robbers surrounded in a mesquite thicket on the
Cimarron, and that it was a question of only a few hours when they
would be dead men or prisoners. While I was reading that article I was
sitting at breakfast in one of the most elegant private residences in
Washington City, with a flunky in knee pants standing behind my chair.
Jim was sitting across the table talking to his half-uncle, a retired
naval officer, whose name you have often seen in the accounts of doings
in the capital. We had gone there and bought rattling outfits of good
clothes, and were resting from our labours among the nabobs. We must
have been killed in that mesquite thicket, for I can make an affidavit
that we didn’t surrender.

Now I propose to tell why it is easy to hold up a train, and, then, why
no one should ever do it.

In the first place, the attacking party has all the advantage. That is,
of course, supposing that they are old-timers with the necessary
experience and courage. They have the outside and are protected by the
darkness, while the others are in the light, hemmed into a small space,
and exposed, the moment they show a head at a window or door, to the
aim of a man who is a dead shot and who won’t hesitate to shoot.

But, in my opinion, the main condition that makes train robbing easy is
the element of surprise in connection with the imagination of the
passengers. If you have ever seen a horse that has eaten loco weed you
will understand what I mean when I say that the passengers get locoed.
That horse gets the awfullest imagination on him in the world. You
can’t coax him to cross a little branch stream two feet wide. It looks
as big to him as the Mississippi River. That’s just the way with the
passenger. He thinks there are a hundred men yelling and shooting
outside, when maybe there are only two or three. And the muzzle of a
forty-five looks like the entrance to a tunnel. The passenger is all
right, although he may do mean little tricks, like hiding a wad of
money in his shoe and forgetting to dig-up until you jostle his ribs
some with the end of your six-shooter; but there’s no harm in him.

As to the train crew, we never had any more trouble with them than if
they had been so many sheep. I don’t mean that they are cowards; I mean
that they have got sense. They know they’re not up against a bluff.
It’s the same way with the officers. I’ve seen secret service men,
marshals, and railroad detectives fork over their change as meek as
Moses. I saw one of the bravest marshals I ever knew hide his gun under
his seat and dig up along with the rest while I was taking toll. He
wasn’t afraid; he simply knew that we had the drop on the whole outfit.
Besides, many of those officers have families and they feel that they
oughtn’t to take chances; whereas death has no terrors for the man who
holds up a train. He expects to get killed some day, and he generally
does. My advice to you, if you should ever be in a hold-up, is to line
up with the cowards and save your bravery for an occasion when it may
be of some benefit to you. Another reason why officers are backward
about mixing things with a train robber is a financial one. Every time
there is a scrimmage and somebody gets killed, the officers lose money.
If the train robber gets away they swear out a warrant against John Doe
et al. and travel hundreds of miles and sign vouchers for thousands on
the trail of the fugitives, and the Government foots the bills. So,
with them, it is a question of mileage rather than courage.

I will give one instance to support my statement that the surprise is
the best card in playing for a hold-up.

Along in ’92 the Daltons were cutting out a hot trail for the officers
down in the Cherokee Nation, Those were their lucky days, and they got
so reckless and sandy, that they used to announce before hand what job
they were going to undertake. Once they gave it out that they were
going to hold up the M. K. & T. flyer on a certain night at the station
of Pryor Creek, in Indian Territory.

That night the railroad company got fifteen deputy marshals in Muscogee
and put them on the train. Beside them they had fifty armed men hid in
the depot at Pryor Creek.

When the Katy Flyer pulled in not a Dalton showed up. The next station
was Adair, six miles away. When the train reached there, and the
deputies were having a good time explaining what they would have done
to the Dalton gang if they had turned up, all at once it sounded like
an army firing outside. The conductor and brakeman came running into
the car yelling, “Train robbers!”

Some of those deputies lit out of the door, hit the ground, and kept on
running. Some of them hid their Winchesters under the seats. Two of
them made a fight and were both killed.

It took the Daltons just ten minutes to capture the train and whip the
escort. In twenty minutes more they robbed the express car of
twenty-seven thousand dollars and made a clean get-away.

My opinion is that those deputies would have put up a stiff fight at
Pryor Creek, where they were expecting trouble, but they were taken by
surprise and “locoed” at Adair, just as the Daltons, who knew their
business, expected they would.

I don’t think I ought to close without giving some deductions from my
experience of eight years “on the dodge.” It doesn’t pay to rob trains.
Leaving out the question of right and morals, which I don’t think I
ought to tackle, there is very little to envy in the life of an outlaw.
After a while money ceases to have any value in his eyes. He gets to
looking upon the railroads and express companies as his bankers, and
his six-shooter as a cheque book good for any amount. He throws away
money right and left. Most of the time he is on the jump, riding day
and night, and he lives so hard between times that he doesn’t enjoy the
taste of high life when he gets it. He knows that his time is bound to
come to lose his life or liberty, and that the accuracy of his aim, the
speed of his horse, and the fidelity of his “sider,” are all that
postpone the inevitable.

It isn’t that he loses any sleep over danger from the officers of the
law. In all my experience I never knew officers to attack a band of
outlaws unless they outnumbered them at least three to one.

But the outlaw carries one thought constantly in his mind—and that is
what makes him so sore against life, more than anything else—he knows
where the marshals get their recruits of deputies. He knows that the
majority of these upholders of the law were once lawbreakers, horse
thieves, rustlers, highwaymen, and outlaws like himself, and that they
gained their positions and immunity by turning state’s evidence, by
turning traitor and delivering up their comrades to imprisonment and
death. He knows that some day—unless he is shot first—his Judas will
set to work, the trap will be laid, and he will be the surprised
instead of a surpriser at a stick-up.

That is why the man who holds up trains picks his company with a
thousand times the care with which a careful girl chooses a sweetheart.
That is why he raises himself from his blanket of nights and listens to
the tread of every horse’s hoofs on the distant road. That is why he
broods suspiciously for days upon a jesting remark or an unusual
movement of a tried comrade, or the broken mutterings of his closest
friend, sleeping by his side.

And it is one of the reasons why the train-robbing profession is not so
pleasant a one as either of its collateral branches—politics or
cornering the market.




VI.
ULYSSES AND THE DOGMAN


Do you know the time of the dogmen?

When the forefinger of twilight begins to smudge the clear-drawn lines
of the Big City there is inaugurated an hour devoted to one of the most
melancholy sights of urban life.

Out from the towering flat crags and apartment peaks of the cliff
dwellers of New York steals an army of beings that were once men. Even
yet they go upright upon two limbs and retain human form and speech;
but you will observe that they are behind animals in progress. Each of
these beings follows a dog, to which he is fastened by an artificial
ligament.

These men are all victims to Circe. Not willingly do they become
flunkeys to Fido, bell boys to bull terriers, and toddlers after
Towzer. Modern Circe, instead of turning them into animals, has kindly
left the difference of a six-foot leash between them. Every one of
those dogmen has been either cajoled, bribed, or commanded by his own
particular Circe to take the dear household pet out for an airing.

By their faces and manner you can tell that the dogmen are bound in a
hopeless enchantment. Never will there come even a dog-catcher Ulysses
to remove the spell.

The faces of some are stonily set. They are past the commiseration, the
curiosity, or the jeers of their fellow-beings. Years of matrimony, of
continuous compulsory canine constitutionals, have made them callous.
They unwind their beasts from lamp posts, or the ensnared legs of
profane pedestrians, with the stolidity of mandarins manipulating the
strings of their kites.

Others, more recently reduced to the ranks of Rover’s retinue, take
their medicine sulkily and fiercely. They play the dog on the end of
their line with the pleasure felt by the girl out fishing when she
catches a sea-robin on her hook. They glare at you threateningly if you
look at them, as if it would be their delight to let slip the dogs of
war. These are half-mutinous dogmen, not quite Circe-ized, and you will
do well not to kick their charges, should they sniff around your
ankles.

Others of the tribe do not seem to feel so keenly. They are mostly
unfresh youths, with gold caps and drooping cigarettes, who do not
harmonize with their dogs. The animals they attend wear satin bows in
their collars; and the young men steer them so assiduously that you are
tempted to the theory that some personal advantage, contingent upon
satisfactory service, waits upon the execution of their duties.

The dogs thus personally conducted are of many varieties; but they are
one in fatness, in pampered, diseased vileness of temper, in insolent,
snarling capriciousness of behaviour. They tug at the leash
fractiously, they make leisurely nasal inventory of every door step,
railing, and post. They sit down to rest when they choose; they wheeze
like the winner of a Third Avenue beefsteak-eating contest; they
blunder clumsily into open cellars and coal holes; they lead the dogmen
a merry dance.

These unfortunate dry nurses of dogdom, the cur cuddlers, mongrel
managers, Spitz stalkers, poodle pullers, Skye scrapers, dachshund
dandlers, terrier trailers and Pomeranian pushers of the cliff-dwelling
Circes follow their charges meekly. The doggies neither fear nor
respect them. Masters of the house these men whom they hold in leash
may be, but they are not masters of them. From cosey corner to fire
escape, from divan to dumbwaiter, doggy’s snarl easily drives this
two-legged being who is commissioned to walk at the other end of his
string during his outing.

One twilight the dogmen came forth as usual at their Circes’ pleading,
guerdon, or crack of the whip. One among them was a strong man,
apparently of too solid virtues for this airy vocation. His expression
was melancholic, his manner depressed. He was leashed to a vile white
dog, loathsomely fat, fiendishly ill-natured, gloatingly intractable
toward his despised conductor.

At a corner nearest to his apartment house the dogman turned down a
side street, hoping for fewer witnesses to his ignominy. The surfeited
beast waddled before him, panting with spleen and the labour of motion.

Suddenly the dog stopped. A tall, brown, long-coated, wide-brimmed man
stood like a Colossus blocking the sidewalk and declaring:

“Well, I’m a son of a gun!”

“Jim Berry!” breathed the dogman, with exclamation points in his voice.

“Sam Telfair,” cried Wide-Brim again, “you ding-basted old
willy-walloo, give us your hoof!”

Their hands clasped in the brief, tight greeting of the West that is
death to the hand-shake microbe.

“You old fat rascal!” continued Wide-Brim, with a wrinkled brown smile;
“it’s been five years since I seen you. I been in this town a week, but
you can’t find nobody in such a place. Well, you dinged old married
man, how are they coming?”

Something mushy and heavily soft like raised dough leaned against Jim’s
leg and chewed his trousers with a yeasty growl.

“Get to work,” said Jim, “and explain this yard-wide hydrophobia
yearling you’ve throwed your lasso over. Are you the pound-master of
this burg? Do you call that a dog or what?”

“I need a drink,” said the dogman, dejected at the reminder of his old
dog of the sea. “Come on.”

Hard by was a café. ’Tis ever so in the big city.

They sat at a table, and the bloated monster yelped and scrambled at
the end of his leash to get at the café cat.

“Whiskey,” said Jim to the waiter.

“Make it two,” said the dogman.

“You’re fatter,” said Jim, “and you look subjugated. I don’t know about
the East agreeing with you. All the boys asked me to hunt you up when I
started. Sandy King, he went to the Klondike. Watson Burrel, he married
the oldest Peters girl. I made some money buying beeves, and I bought a
lot of wild land up on the Little Powder. Going to fence next fall.
Bill Rawlins, he’s gone to farming. You remember Bill, of course—he was
courting Marcella—excuse me, Sam—I mean the lady you married, while she
was teaching school at Prairie View. But you was the lucky man. How is
Missis Telfair?”

“S-h-h-h!” said the dogman, signalling the waiter; “give it a name.”

“Whiskey,” said Jim.

“Make it two,” said the dogman.

“She’s well,” he continued, after his chaser. “She refused to live
anywhere but in New York, where she came from. We live in a flat. Every
evening at six I take that dog out for a walk. It’s Marcella’s pet.
There never were two animals on earth, Jim, that hated one another like
me and that dog does. His name’s Lovekins. Marcella dresses for dinner
while we’re out. We eat tabble dote. Ever try one of them, Jim?”

“No, I never,” said Jim. “I seen the signs, but I thought they said
‘table de hole.’ I thought it was French for pool tables. How does it
taste?”

“If you’re going to be in the city for awhile we will—”

“No, sir-ee. I’m starting for home this evening on the 7.25. Like to
stay longer, but I can’t.”

“I’ll walk down to the ferry with you,” said the dogman.

The dog had bound a leg each of Jim and the chair together, and had
sunk into a comatose slumber. Jim stumbled, and the leash was slightly
wrenched. The shrieks of the awakened beast rang for a block around.

“If that’s your dog,” said Jim, when they were on the street again,
“what’s to hinder you from running that habeas corpus you’ve got around
his neck over a limb and walking off and forgetting him?”

“I’d never dare to,” said the dogman, awed at the bold proposition. “He
sleeps in the bed, I sleep on a lounge. He runs howling to Marcella if
I look at him. Some night, Jim, I’m going to get even with that dog.
I’ve made up my mind to do it. I’m going to creep over with a knife and
cut a hole in his mosquito bar so they can get in to him. See if I
don’t do it!”

“You ain’t yourself, Sam Telfair. You ain’t what you was once. I don’t
know about these cities and flats over here. With my own eyes I seen
you stand off both the Tillotson boys in Prairie View with the brass
faucet out of a molasses barrel. And I seen you rope and tie the
wildest steer on Little Powder in 39 1-2.”

“I did, didn’t I?” said the other, with a temporary gleam in his eye.
“But that was before I was dogmatized.”

“Does Misses Telfair—” began Jim.

“Hush!” said the dogman. “Here’s another café.”

They lined up at the bar. The dog fell asleep at their feet.

“Whiskey,” said Jim.

“Make it two,” said the dogman.

“I thought about you,” said Jim, “when I bought that wild land. I
wished you was out there to help me with the stock.”

“Last Tuesday,” said the dogman, “he bit me on the ankle because I
asked for cream in my coffee. He always gets the cream.”

“You’d like Prairie View now,” said Jim. “The boys from the round-ups
for fifty miles around ride in there. One corner of my pasture is in
sixteen miles of the town. There’s a straight forty miles of wire on
one side of it.”

“You pass through the kitchen to get to the bedroom,” said the dogman,
“and you pass through the parlour to get to the bath room, and you back
out through the dining-room to get into the bedroom so you can turn
around and leave by the kitchen. And he snores and barks in his sleep,
and I have to smoke in the park on account of his asthma.”

“Don’t Missis Telfair—” began Jim.

“Oh, shut up!” said the dogman. “What is it this time?”

“Whiskey,” said Jim.

“Make it two,” said the dogman.

“Well, I’ll be racking along down toward the ferry,” said the other.

“Come on, there, you mangy, turtle-backed, snake-headed, bench-legged
ton-and-a-half of soap-grease!” shouted the dogman, with a new note in
his voice and a new hand on the leash. The dog scrambled after them,
with an angry whine at such unusual language from his guardian.

At the foot of Twenty-third Street the dogman led the way through
swinging doors.

“Last chance,” said he. “Speak up.”

“Whiskey,” said Jim.

“Make it two,” said the dogman.

“I don’t know,” said the ranchman, “where I’ll find the man I want to
take charge of the Little Powder outfit. I want somebody I know
something about. Finest stretch of prairie and timber you ever squinted
your eye over, Sam. Now if you was—”

“Speaking of hydrophobia,” said the dogman, “the other night he chewed
a piece out of my leg because I knocked a fly off of Marcella’s arm.
‘It ought to be cauterized,’ says Marcella, and I was thinking so
myself. I telephones for the doctor, and when he comes Marcella says to
me: ‘Help me hold the poor dear while the doctor fixes his mouth. Oh, I
hope he got no virus on any of his toofies when he bit you.’ Now what
do you think of that?”

“Does Missis Telfair—” began Jim.

“Oh, drop it,” said the dogman. “Come again!”

“Whiskey,” said Jim.

“Make it two,” said the dogman.

They walked on to the ferry. The ranchman stepped to the ticket window.

Suddenly the swift landing of three or four heavy kicks was heard, the
air was rent by piercing canine shrieks, and a pained, outraged,
lubberly, bow-legged pudding of a dog ran frenziedly up the street
alone.

“Ticket to Denver,” said Jim.

“Make it two,” shouted the ex-dogman, reaching for his inside pocket.




VII.
THE CHAMPION OF THE WEATHER


If you should speak of the Kiowa Reservation to the average New Yorker
he probably wouldn’t know whether you were referring to a new political
dodge at Albany or a leitmotif from “Parsifal.” But out in the Kiowa
Reservation advices have been received concerning the existence of New
York.

A party of us were on a hunting trip in the Reservation. Bud Kingsbury,
our guide, philosopher, and friend, was broiling antelope steaks in
camp one night. One of the party, a pinkish-haired young man in a
correct hunting costume, sauntered over to the fire to light a
cigarette, and remarked carelessly to Bud:

“Nice night!”

“Why, yes,” said Bud, “as nice as any night could be that ain’t
received the Broadway stamp of approval.”

Now, the young man was from New York, but the rest of us wondered how
Bud guessed it. So, when the steaks were done, we besought him to lay
bare his system of ratiocination. And as Bud was something of a
Territorial talking machine he made oration as follows:

“How did I know he was from New York? Well, I figured it out as soon as
he sprung them two words on me. I was in New York myself a couple of
years ago, and I noticed some of the earmarks and hoof tracks of the
Rancho Manhattan.”

“Found New York rather different from the Panhandle, didn’t you, Bud?”
asked one of the hunters.

“Can’t say that I did,” answered Bud; “anyways, not more than some. The
main trail in that town which they call Broadway is plenty travelled,
but they’re about the same brand of bipeds that tramp around in
Cheyenne and Amarillo, At first I was sort of rattled by the crowds,
but I soon says to myself, ‘Here, now, Bud; they’re just plain folks
like you and Geronimo and Grover Cleveland and the Watson boys, so
don’t get all flustered up with consternation under your saddle
blanket,’ and then I feels calm and peaceful, like I was back in the
Nation again at a ghost dance or a green corn pow-wow.

“I’d been saving up for a year to give this New York a whirl. I knew a
man named Summers that lived there, but I couldn’t find him; so I
played a lone hand at enjoying the intoxicating pleasures of the
corn-fed metropolis.

“For a while I was so frivolous and locoed by the electric lights and
the noises of the phonographs and the second-story railroads that I
forgot one of the crying needs of my Western system of natural
requirements. I never was no hand to deny myself the pleasures of
sociable vocal intercourse with friends and strangers. Out in the
Territories when I meet a man I never saw before, inside of nine
minutes I know his income, religion, size of collar, and his wife’s
temper, and how much he pays for clothes, alimony, and chewing tobacco.
It’s a gift with me not to be penurious with my conversation.

“But this here New York was inaugurated on the idea of abstemiousness
in regard to the parts of speech. At the end of three weeks nobody in
the city had fired even a blank syllable in my direction except the
waiter in the grub emporium where I fed. And as his outpourings of
syntax wasn’t nothing but plagiarisms from the bill of fare, he never
satisfied my yearnings, which was to have somebody hit. If I stood next
to a man at a bar he’d edge off and give a Baldwin-Ziegler look as if
he suspected me of having the North Pole concealed on my person. I
began to wish that I’d gone to Abilene or Waco for my _paseado_; for
the mayor of them places will drink with you, and the first citizen you
meet will tell you his middle name and ask you to take a chance in a
raffle for a music box.

“Well, one day when I was particular hankering for to be gregarious
with something more loquacious than a lamp post, a fellow in a caffy
says to me, says he:

“‘Nice day!’

“He was a kind of a manager of the place, and I reckon he’d seen me in
there a good many times. He had a face like a fish and an eye like
Judas, but I got up and put one arm around his neck.

“‘Pardner,’ I says, ‘sure it’s a nice day. You’re the first gentleman
in all New York to observe that the intricacies of human speech might
not be altogether wasted on William Kingsbury. But don’t you think,’
says I, ‘that ’twas a little cool early in the morning; and ain’t there
a feeling of rain in the air to-night? But along about noon it sure was
gallupsious weather. How’s all up to the house? You doing right well
with the caffy, now?’

“Well, sir, that galoot just turns his back and walks off stiff,
without a word, after all my trying to be agreeable! I didn’t know what
to make of it. That night I finds a note from Summers, who’d been away
from town, giving the address of his camp. I goes up to his house and
has a good, old-time talk with his folks. And I tells Summers about the
actions of this coyote in the caffy, and desires interpretation.

“‘Oh,’ says Summers, ‘he wasn’t intending to strike up a conversation
with you. That’s just the New York style. He’d seen you was a regular
customer and he spoke a word or two just to show you he appreciated
your custom. You oughtn’t to have followed it up. That’s about as far
as we care to go with a stranger. A word or so about the weather may be
ventured, but we don’t generally make it the basis of an acquaintance.’

“‘Billy,’ says I, ‘the weather and its ramifications is a solemn
subject with me. Meteorology is one of my sore points. No man can open
up the question of temperature or humidity or the glad sunshine with
me, and then turn tail on it without its leading to a falling
barometer. I’m going down to see that man again and give him a lesson
in the art of continuous conversation. You say New York etiquette
allows him two words and no answer. Well, he’s going to turn himself
into a weather bureau and finish what he begun with me, besides
indulging in neighbourly remarks on other subjects.’

“Summers talked agin it, but I was irritated some and I went on the
street car back to that caffy.

“The same fellow was there yet, walking round in a sort of back corral
where there was tables and chairs. A few people was sitting around
having drinks and sneering at one another.

“I called that man to one side and herded him into a corner. I
unbuttoned enough to show him a thirty-eight I carried stuck under my
vest.

“‘Pardner,’ I says, ‘a brief space ago I was in here and you seized the
opportunity to say it was a nice day. When I attempted to corroborate
your weather signal, you turned your back and walked off. Now,’ says I,
‘you frog-hearted, language-shy, stiff-necked cross between a
Spitzbergen sea cook and a muzzled oyster, you resume where you left
off in your discourse on the weather.’

“The fellow looks at me and tries to grin, but he sees I don’t and he
comes around serious.

“‘Well,’ says he, eyeing the handle of my gun, ‘it was rather a nice
day; some warmish, though.’

“‘Particulars, you mealy-mouthed snoozer,’ I says—‘let’s have the
specifications—expatiate—fill in the outlines. When you start anything
with me in short-hand it’s bound to turn out a storm signal.’

“‘Looked like rain yesterday,’ says the man, ‘but it cleared off fine
in the forenoon. I hear the farmers are needing rain right badly
up-State.’

“‘That’s the kind of a canter,’ says I. ‘Shake the New York dust off
your hoofs and be a real agreeable kind of a centaur. You broke the
ice, you know, and we’re getting better acquainted every minute. Seems
to me I asked you about your family?’

“‘They’re all well, thanks,’ says he. ‘We—we have a new piano.’

“‘Now you’re coming it,’ I says. ‘This cold reserve is breaking up at
last. That little touch about the piano almost makes us brothers.
What’s the youngest kid’s name?’ I asks him.

“‘Thomas,’ says he. ‘He’s just getting well from the measles.’

“‘I feel like I’d known you always,’ says I. ‘Now there was just one
more—are you doing right well with the caffy, now?’

“‘Pretty well,’ he says. ‘I’m putting away a little money.’

“‘Glad to hear it,’ says I. ‘Now go back to your work and get
civilized. Keep your hands off the weather unless you’re ready to
follow it up in a personal manner, It’s a subject that naturally
belongs to sociability and the forming of new ties, and I hate to see
it handed out in small change in a town like this.’

“So the next day I rolls up my blankets and hits the trail away from
New York City.”

For many minutes after Bud ceased talking we lingered around the fire,
and then all hands began to disperse for bed.

As I was unrolling my bedding I heard the pinkish-haired young man
saying to Bud, with something like anxiety in his voice:

“As I say, Mr. Kingsbury, there is something really beautiful about
this night. The delightful breeze and the bright stars and the clear
air unite in making it wonderfully attractive.”

“Yes,” said Bud, “it’s a nice night.”




VIII.
MAKES THE WHOLE WORLD KIN


The burglar stepped inside the window quickly, and then he took his
time. A burglar who respects his art always takes his time before
taking anything else.

The house was a private residence. By its boarded front door and
untrimmed Boston ivy the burglar knew that the mistress of it was
sitting on some oceanside piazza telling a sympathetic man in a
yachting cap that no one had ever understood her sensitive, lonely
heart. He knew by the light in the third-story front windows, and by
the lateness of the season, that the master of the house had come home,
and would soon extinguish his light and retire. For it was September of
the year and of the soul, in which season the house’s good man comes to
consider roof gardens and stenographers as vanities, and to desire the
return of his mate and the more durable blessings of decorum and the
moral excellencies.

The burglar lighted a cigarette. The guarded glow of the match
illuminated his salient points for a moment. He belonged to the third
type of burglars.

This third type has not yet been recognized and accepted. The police
have made us familiar with the first and second. Their classification
is simple. The collar is the distinguishing mark.

When a burglar is caught who does not wear a collar he is described as
a degenerate of the lowest type, singularly vicious and depraved, and
is suspected of being the desperate criminal who stole the handcuffs
out of Patrolman Hennessy’s pocket in 1878 and walked away to escape
arrest.

The other well-known type is the burglar who wears a collar. He is
always referred to as a Raffles in real life. He is invariably a
gentleman by daylight, breakfasting in a dress suit, and posing as a
paperhanger, while after dark he plies his nefarious occupation of
burglary. His mother is an extremely wealthy and respected resident of
Ocean Grove, and when he is conducted to his cell he asks at once for a
nail file and the _Police Gazette_. He always has a wife in every State
in the Union and fiancées in all the Territories, and the newspapers
print his matrimonial gallery out of their stock of cuts of the ladies
who were cured by only one bottle after having been given up by five
doctors, experiencing great relief after the first dose.

The burglar wore a blue sweater. He was neither a Raffles nor one of
the chefs from Hell’s Kitchen. The police would have been baffled had
they attempted to classify him. They have not yet heard of the
respectable, unassuming burglar who is neither above nor below his
station.

This burglar of the third class began to prowl. He wore no masks, dark
lanterns, or gum shoes. He carried a 38-calibre revolver in his pocket,
and he chewed peppermint gum thoughtfully.

The furniture of the house was swathed in its summer dust protectors.
The silver was far away in safe-deposit vaults. The burglar expected no
remarkable “haul.” His objective point was that dimly lighted room
where the master of the house should be sleeping heavily after whatever
solace he had sought to lighten the burden of his loneliness. A “touch”
might be made there to the extent of legitimate, fair professional
profits—loose money, a watch, a jewelled stick-pin—nothing exorbitant
or beyond reason. He had seen the window left open and had taken the
chance.

The burglar softly opened the door of the lighted room. The gas was
turned low. A man lay in the bed asleep. On the dresser lay many things
in confusion—a crumpled roll of bills, a watch, keys, three poker
chips, crushed cigars, a pink silk hair bow, and an unopened bottle of
bromo-seltzer for a bulwark in the morning.

The burglar took three steps toward the dresser. The man in the bed
suddenly uttered a squeaky groan and opened his eyes. His right hand
slid under his pillow, but remained there.

“Lay still,” said the burglar in conversational tone. Burglars of the
third type do not hiss. The citizen in the bed looked at the round end
of the burglar’s pistol and lay still.

“Now hold up both your hands,” commanded the burglar.

The citizen had a little, pointed, brown-and-gray beard, like that of a
painless dentist. He looked solid, esteemed, irritable, and disgusted.
He sat up in bed and raised his right hand above his head.

“Up with the other one,” ordered the burglar. “You might be amphibious
and shoot with your left. You can count two, can’t you? Hurry up, now.”

“Can’t raise the other one,” said the citizen, with a contortion of his
lineaments.

“What’s the matter with it?”

“Rheumatism in the shoulder.”

“Inflammatory?”

“Was. The inflammation has gone down.” The burglar stood for a moment
or two, holding his gun on the afflicted one. He glanced at the plunder
on the dresser and then, with a half-embarrassed air, back at the man
in the bed. Then he, too, made a sudden grimace.

“Don’t stand there making faces,” snapped the citizen, bad-humouredly.
“If you’ve come to burgle why don’t you do it? There’s some stuff lying
around.”

“’Scuse me,” said the burglar, with a grin; “but it just socked me one,
too. It’s good for you that rheumatism and me happens to be old pals. I
got it in my left arm, too. Most anybody but me would have popped you
when you wouldn’t hoist that left claw of yours.”

“How long have you had it?” inquired the citizen.

“Four years. I guess that ain’t all. Once you’ve got it, it’s you for a
rheumatic life—that’s my judgment.”

“Ever try rattlesnake oil?” asked the citizen, interestedly.

“Gallons,” said the burglar. “If all the snakes I’ve used the oil of
was strung out in a row they’d reach eight times as far as Saturn, and
the rattles could be heard at Valparaiso, Indiana, and back.”

“Some use Chiselum’s Pills,” remarked the citizen.

“Fudge!” said the burglar. “Took ’em five months. No good. I had some
relief the year I tried Finkelham’s Extract, Balm of Gilead poultices
and Potts’s Pain Pulverizer; but I think it was the buckeye I carried
in my pocket what done the trick.”

“Is yours worse in the morning or at night?” asked the citizen.

“Night,” said the burglar; “just when I’m busiest. Say, take down that
arm of yours—I guess you won’t—Say! did you ever try Blickerstaff’s
Blood Builder?”

“I never did. Does yours come in paroxysms or is it a steady pain?”

The burglar sat down on the foot of the bed and rested his gun on his
crossed knee.

“It jumps,” said he. “It strikes me when I ain’t looking for it. I had
to give up second-story work because I got stuck sometimes half-way up.
Tell you what—I don’t believe the bloomin’ doctors know what is good
for it.”

“Same here. I’ve spent a thousand dollars without getting any relief.
Yours swell any?”

“Of mornings. And when it’s goin’ to rain—great Christopher!”

“Me, too,” said the citizen. “I can tell when a streak of humidity the
size of a table-cloth starts from Florida on its way to New York. And
if I pass a theatre where there’s an ‘East Lynne’ matinee going on, the
moisture starts my left arm jumping like a toothache.”

“It’s undiluted—hades!” said the burglar.

“You’re dead right,” said the citizen.

The burglar looked down at his pistol and thrust it into his pocket
with an awkward attempt at ease.

“Say, old man,” he said, constrainedly, “ever try opodeldoc?”

“Slop!” said the citizen angrily. “Might as well rub on restaurant
butter.”

“Sure,” concurred the burglar. “It’s a salve suitable for little Minnie
when the kitty scratches her finger. I’ll tell you what! We’re up
against it. I only find one thing that eases her up. Hey? Little old
sanitary, ameliorating, lest-we-forget Booze. Say—this job’s off—’scuse
me—get on your clothes and let’s go out and have some. ’Scuse the
liberty, but—ouch! There she goes again!”

“For a week,” said the citizen. “I haven’t been able to dress myself
without help. I’m afraid Thomas is in bed, and—”

“Climb out,” said the burglar, “I’ll help you get into your duds.”

The conventional returned as a tidal wave and flooded the citizen. He
stroked his brown-and-gray beard.

“It’s very unusual—” he began.

“Here’s your shirt,” said the burglar, “fall out. I knew a man who said
Omberry’s Ointment fixed him in two weeks so he could use both hands in
tying his four-in-hand.”

As they were going out the door the citizen turned and started back.

“‘Liked to forgot my money,” he explained; “laid it on the dresser last
night.”

The burglar caught him by the right sleeve.

“Come on,” he said bluffly. “I ask you. Leave it alone. I’ve got the
price. Ever try witch hazel and oil of wintergreen?”




IX.
AT ARMS WITH MORPHEUS


I never could quite understand how Tom Hopkins came to make that
blunder, for he had been through a whole term at a medical
college—before he inherited his aunt’s fortune—and had been considered
strong in therapeutics.

We had been making a call together that evening, and afterward Tom ran
up to my rooms for a pipe and a chat before going on to his own
luxurious apartments. I had stepped into the other room for a moment
when I heard Tom sing out:

“Oh, Billy, I’m going to take about four grains of quinine, if you
don’t mind— I’m feeling all blue and shivery. Guess I’m taking cold.”

“All right,” I called back. “The bottle is on the second shelf. Take it
in a spoonful of that elixir of eucalyptus. It knocks the bitter out.”

After I came back we sat by the fire and got our briars going. In about
eight minutes Tom sank back into a gentle collapse.

I went straight to the medicine cabinet and looked.

“You unmitigated hayseed!” I growled. “See what money will do for a
man’s brains!”

There stood the morphine bottle with the stopple out, just as Tom had
left it.

I routed out another young M.D. who roomed on the floor above, and sent
him for old Doctor Gales, two squares away. Tom Hopkins has too much
money to be attended by rising young practitioners alone.

When Gales came we put Tom through as expensive a course of treatment
as the resources of the profession permit. After the more drastic
remedies we gave him citrate of caffeine in frequent doses and strong
coffee, and walked him up and down the floor between two of us. Old
Gales pinched him and slapped his face and worked hard for the big
check he could see in the distance. The young M.D. from the next floor
gave Tom a most hearty, rousing kick, and then apologized to me.

“Couldn’t help it,” he said. “I never kicked a millionaire before in my
life. I may never have another opportunity.”

“Now,” said Doctor Gales, after a couple of hours, “he’ll do. But keep
him awake for another hour. You can do that by talking to him and
shaking him up occasionally. When his pulse and respiration are normal
then let him sleep. I’ll leave him with you now.”

I was left alone with Tom, whom we had laid on a couch. He lay very
still, and his eyes were half closed. I began my work of keeping him
awake.

“Well, old man,” I said, “you’ve had a narrow squeak, but we’ve pulled
you through. When you were attending lectures, Tom, didn’t any of the
professors ever casually remark that m-o-r-p-h-i-a never spells
‘quinia,’ especially in four-grain doses? But I won’t pile it up on you
until you get on your feet. But you ought to have been a druggist, Tom;
you’re splendidly qualified to fill prescriptions.”

Tom looked at me with a faint and foolish smile.

“B’ly,” he murmured, “I feel jus’ like a hum’n bird flyin’ around a
jolly lot of most ’shpensive roses. Don’ bozzer me. Goin’ sleep now.”

And he went to sleep in two seconds. I shook him by the shoulder.

“Now, Tom,” I said, severely, “this won’t do. The big doctor said you
must stay awake for at least an hour. Open your eyes. You’re not
entirely safe yet, you know. Wake up.”

Tom Hopkins weighs one hundred and ninety-eight. He gave me another
somnolent grin, and fell into deeper slumber. I would have made him
move about, but I might as well have tried to make Cleopatra’s needle
waltz around the room with me. Tom’s breathing became stertorous, and
that, in connection with morphia poisoning, means danger.

Then I began to think. I could not rouse his body; I must strive to
excite his mind. “Make him angry,” was an idea that suggested itself.
“Good!” I thought; but how? There was not a joint in Tom’s armour. Dear
old fellow! He was good nature itself, and a gallant gentleman, fine
and true and clean as sunlight. He came from somewhere down South,
where they still have ideals and a code. New York had charmed, but had
not spoiled, him. He had that old-fashioned chivalrous reverence for
women, that—Eureka!—there was my idea! I worked the thing up for a
minute or two in my imagination. I chuckled to myself at the thought of
springing a thing like that on old Tom Hopkins. Then I took him by the
shoulder and shook him till his ears flopped. He opened his eyes
lazily. I assumed an expression of scorn and contempt, and pointed my
finger within two inches of his nose.

“Listen to me, Hopkins,” I said, in cutting and distinct tones, “you
and I have been good friends, but I want you to understand that in the
future my doors are closed against any man who acts as much like a
scoundrel as you have.”

Tom looked the least bit interested.

“What’s the matter, Billy?” he muttered, composedly. “Don’t your
clothes fit you?”

“If I were in your place,” I went on, “which, thank God, I am not, I
think I would be afraid to close my eyes. How about that girl you left
waiting for you down among those lonesome Southern pines—the girl that
you’ve forgotten since you came into your confounded money? Oh, I know
what I’m talking about. While you were a poor medical student she was
good enough for you. But now, since you are a millionaire, it’s
different. I wonder what she thinks of the performances of that
peculiar class of people which she has been taught to worship—the
Southern gentlemen? I’m sorry, Hopkins, that I was forced to speak
about these matters, but you’ve covered it up so well and played your
part so nicely that I would have sworn you were above such unmanly
tricks.”

Poor Tom. I could scarcely keep from laughing outright to see him
struggling against the effects of the opiate. He was distinctly angry,
and I didn’t blame him. Tom had a Southern temper. His eyes were open
now, and they showed a gleam or two of fire. But the drug still clouded
his mind and bound his tongue.

“C-c-confound you,” he stammered, “I’ll s-smash you.”

He tried to rise from the couch. With all his size he was very weak
now. I thrust him back with one arm. He lay there glaring like a lion
in a trap.

“That will hold you for a while, you old loony,” I said to myself. I
got up and lit my pipe, for I was needing a smoke. I walked around a
bit, congratulating myself on my brilliant idea.

I heard a snore. I looked around. Tom was asleep again. I walked over
and punched him on the jaw. He looked at me as pleasant and ungrudging
as an idiot. I chewed my pipe and gave it to him hard.

“I want you to recover yourself and get out of my rooms as soon as you
can,” I said, insultingly. “I’ve told you what I think of you. If you
have any honour or honesty left you will think twice before you attempt
again to associate with gentlemen. She’s a poor girl, isn’t she?” I
sneered. “Somewhat too plain and unfashionable for us since we got our
money. Be ashamed to walk on Fifth Avenue with her, wouldn’t you?
Hopkins, you’re forty-seven times worse than a cad. Who cares for your
money? I don’t. I’ll bet that girl don’t. Perhaps if you didn’t have it
you’d be more of a man. As it is you’ve made a cur of yourself, and”—I
thought that quite dramatic—“perhaps broken a faithful heart.” (Old Tom
Hopkins breaking a faithful heart!) “Let me be rid of you as soon as
possible.”

I turned my back on Tom, and winked at myself in a mirror. I heard him
moving, and I turned again quickly. I didn’t want a hundred and
ninety-eight pounds falling on me from the rear. But Tom had only
turned partly over, and laid one arm across his face. He spoke a few
words rather more distinctly than before.

“I couldn’t have—talked this way—to you, Billy, even if I’d heard
people—lyin’ ’bout you. But jus’ soon’s I can s-stand up—I’ll break
your neck—don’ f’get it.”

I did feel a little ashamed then. But it was to save Tom. In the
morning, when I explained it, we would have a good laugh over it
together.

In about twenty minutes Tom dropped into a sound, easy slumber. I felt
his pulse, listened to his respiration, and let him sleep. Everything
was normal, and Tom was safe. I went into the other room and tumbled
into bed.

I found Tom up and dressed when I awoke the next morning. He was
entirely himself again with the exception of shaky nerves and a tongue
like a white-oak chip.

“What an idiot I was,” he said, thoughtfully. “I remember thinking that
quinine bottle looked queer while I was taking the dose. Have much
trouble in bringing me ’round?”

I told him no. His memory seemed bad about the entire affair. I
concluded that he had no recollection of my efforts to keep him awake,
and decided not to enlighten him. Some other time, I thought, when he
was feeling better, we would have some fun over it.

When Tom was ready to go he stopped, with the door open, and shook my
hand.

“Much obliged, old fellow,” he said, quietly, “for taking so much
trouble with me—and for what you said. I’m going down now to telegraph
to the little girl.”




X.
A GHOST OF A CHANCE


“Actually, a _hod_!” repeated Mrs. Kinsolving, pathetically.

Mrs. Bellamy Bellmore arched a sympathetic eyebrow. Thus she expressed
condolence and a generous amount of apparent surprise.

“Fancy her telling everywhere,” recapitulated Mrs. Kinsolving, “that
she saw a ghost in the apartment she occupied here—our choicest
guest-room—a ghost, carrying a hod on its shoulder—the ghost of an old
man in overalls, smoking a pipe and carrying a hod! The very absurdity
of the thing shows her malicious intent. There never was a Kinsolving
that carried a hod. Every one knows that Mr. Kinsolving’s father
accumulated his money by large building contracts, but he never worked
a day with his own hands. He had this house built from his own plans;
but—oh, a hod! Why need she have been so cruel and malicious?”

“It is really too bad,” murmured Mrs. Bellmore, with an approving
glance of her fine eyes about the vast chamber done in lilac and old
gold. “And it was in this room she saw it! Oh, no, I’m not afraid of
ghosts. Don’t have the least fear on my account. I’m glad you put me in
here. I think family ghosts so interesting! But, really, the story does
sound a little inconsistent. I should have expected something better
from Mrs. Fischer-Suympkins. Don’t they carry bricks in hods? Why
should a ghost bring bricks into a villa built of marble and stone? I’m
so sorry, but it makes me think that age is beginning to tell upon Mrs.
Fischer-Suympkins.”

“This house,” continued Mrs. Kinsolving, “was built upon the site of an
old one used by the family during the Revolution. There wouldn’t be
anything strange in its having a ghost. And there was a Captain
Kinsolving who fought in General Greene’s army, though we’ve never been
able to secure any papers to vouch for it. If there is to be a family
ghost, why couldn’t it have been his, instead of a bricklayer’s?”

“The ghost of a Revolutionary ancestor wouldn’t be a bad idea,” agreed
Mrs. Bellmore; “but you know how arbitrary and inconsiderate ghosts can
be. Maybe, like love, they are ‘engendered in the eye.’ One advantage
of those who see ghosts is that their stories can’t be disproved. By a
spiteful eye, a Revolutionary knapsack might easily be construed to be
a hod. Dear Mrs. Kinsolving, think no more of it. I am sure it was a
knapsack.”

“But she told everybody!” mourned Mrs. Kinsolving, inconsolable. “She
insisted upon the details. There is the pipe. And how are you going to
get out of the overalls?”

“Shan’t get into them,” said Mrs. Bellmore, with a prettily suppressed
yawn; “too stiff and wrinkly. Is that you, Felice? Prepare my bath,
please. Do you dine at seven at Clifftop, Mrs. Kinsolving? So kind of
you to run in for a chat before dinner! I love those little touches of
informality with a guest. They give such a home flavour to a visit. So
sorry; I must be dressing. I am so indolent I always postpone it until
the last moment.”

Mrs. Fischer-Suympkins had been the first large plum that the
Kinsolvings had drawn from the social pie. For a long time, the pie
itself had been out of reach on a top shelf. But the purse and the
pursuit had at last lowered it. Mrs. Fischer-Suympkins was the
heliograph of the smart society parading corps. The glitter of her wit
and actions passed along the line, transmitting whatever was latest and
most daring in the game of peep-show. Formerly, her fame and leadership
had been secure enough not to need the support of such artifices as
handing around live frogs for favours at a cotillon. But, now, these
things were necessary to the holding of her throne. Beside, middle age
had come to preside, incongruous, at her capers. The sensational papers
had cut her space from a page to two columns. Her wit developed a
sting; her manners became more rough and inconsiderate, as if she felt
the royal necessity of establishing her autocracy by scorning the
conventionalities that bound lesser potentates.

To some pressure at the command of the Kinsolvings, she had yielded so
far as to honour their house by her presence, for an evening and night.
She had her revenge upon her hostess by relating, with grim enjoyment
and sarcastic humour, her story of the vision carrying the hod. To that
lady, in raptures at having penetrated thus far toward the coveted
inner circle, the result came as a crushing disappointment. Everybody
either sympathized or laughed, and there was little to choose between
the two modes of expression.

But, later on, Mrs. Kinsolving’s hopes and spirits were revived by the
capture of a second and greater prize.

Mrs. Bellamy Bellmore had accepted an invitation to visit at Clifftop,
and would remain for three days. Mrs. Bellmore was one of the younger
matrons, whose beauty, descent, and wealth gave her a reserved seat in
the holy of holies that required no strenuous bolstering. She was
generous enough thus to give Mrs. Kinsolving the accolade that was so
poignantly desired; and, at the same time, she thought how much it
would please Terence. Perhaps it would end by solving him.

Terence was Mrs. Kinsolving’s son, aged twenty-nine, quite good-looking
enough, and with two or three attractive and mysterious traits. For
one, he was very devoted to his mother, and that was sufficiently odd
to deserve notice. For others, he talked so little that it was
irritating, and he seemed either very shy or very deep. Terence
interested Mrs. Bellmore, because she was not sure which it was. She
intended to study him a little longer, unless she forgot the matter. If
he was only shy, she would abandon him, for shyness is a bore. If he
was deep, she would also abandon him, for depth is precarious.

On the afternoon of the third day of her visit, Terence hunted up Mrs.
Bellmore, and found her in a nook actually looking at an album.

“It’s so good of you,” said he, “to come down here and retrieve the day
for us. I suppose you have heard that Mrs. Fischer-Suympkins scuttled
the ship before she left. She knocked a whole plank out of the bottom
with a hod. My mother is grieving herself ill about it. Can’t you
manage to see a ghost for us while you are here, Mrs. Bellmore—a
bang-up, swell ghost, with a coronet on his head and a cheque book
under his arm?”

“That was a naughty old lady, Terence,” said Mrs. Bellmore, “to tell
such stories. Perhaps you gave her too much supper. Your mother doesn’t
really take it seriously, does she?”

“I think she does,” answered Terence. “One would think every brick in
the hod had dropped on her. It’s a good mammy, and I don’t like to see
her worried. It’s to be hoped that the ghost belongs to the
hod-carriers’ union, and will go out on a strike. If he doesn’t, there
will be no peace in this family.”

“I’m sleeping in the ghost-chamber,” said Mrs. Bellmore, pensively.
“But it’s so nice I wouldn’t change it, even if I were afraid, which
I’m not. It wouldn’t do for me to submit a counter story of a
desirable, aristocratic shade, would it? I would do so, with pleasure,
but it seems to me it would be too obviously an antidote for the other
narrative to be effective.”

“True,” said Terence, running two fingers thoughtfully into his crisp,
brown hair; “that would never do. How would it work to see the same
ghost again, minus the overalls, and have gold bricks in the hod? That
would elevate the spectre from degrading toil to a financial plane.
Don’t you think that would be respectable enough?”

“There was an ancestor who fought against the Britishers, wasn’t there?
Your mother said something to that effect.”

“I believe so; one of those old chaps in raglan vests and golf
trousers. I don’t care a continental for a Continental, myself. But the
mother has set her heart on pomp and heraldry and pyrotechnics, and I
want her to be happy.”

“You are a good boy, Terence,” said Mrs. Bellmore, sweeping her silks
close to one side of her, “not to beat your mother. Sit here by me, and
let’s look at the album, just as people used to do twenty years ago.
Now, tell me about every one of them. Who is this tall, dignified
gentleman leaning against the horizon, with one arm on the Corinthian
column?”

“That old chap with the big feet?” inquired Terence, craning his neck.
“That’s great-uncle O’Brannigan. He used to keep a rathskeller on the
Bowery.”

“I asked you to sit down, Terence. If you are not going to amuse, or
obey, me, I shall report in the morning that I saw a ghost wearing an
apron and carrying schooners of beer. Now, that is better. To be shy,
at your age, Terence, is a thing that you should blush to acknowledge.”

At breakfast on the last morning of her visit, Mrs. Bellmore startled
and entranced every one present by announcing positively that she had
seen the ghost.

“Did it have a—a—a—?” Mrs. Kinsolving, in her suspense and agitation,
could not bring out the word.

“No, indeed—far from it.”

There was a chorus of questions from others at the table. “Weren’t you
frightened?” “What did it do?” “How did it look?” “How was it dressed?”
“Did it say anything?” “Didn’t you scream?”

“I’ll try to answer everything at once,” said Mrs. Bellmore,
heroically, “although I’m frightfully hungry. Something awakened me—I’m
not sure whether it was a noise or a touch—and there stood the phantom.
I never burn a light at night, so the room was quite dark, but I saw it
plainly. I wasn’t dreaming. It was a tall man, all misty white from
head to foot. It wore the full dress of the old Colonial days—powdered
hair, baggy coat skirts, lace ruffles, and a sword. It looked
intangible and luminous in the dark, and moved without a sound. Yes, I
was a little frightened at first—or startled, I should say. It was the
first ghost I had ever seen. No, it didn’t say anything. I didn’t
scream. I raised up on my elbow, and then it glided silently away, and
disappeared when it reached the door.”

Mrs. Kinsolving was in the seventh heaven. “The description is that of
Captain Kinsolving, of General Greene’s army, one of our ancestors,”
she said, in a voice that trembled with pride and relief. “I really
think I must apologize for our ghostly relative, Mrs. Bellmore. I am
afraid he must have badly disturbed your rest.”

Terence sent a smile of pleased congratulation toward his mother.
Attainment was Mrs. Kinsolving’s, at last, and he loved to see her
happy.

“I suppose I ought to be ashamed to confess,” said Mrs. Bellmore, who
was now enjoying her breakfast, “that I wasn’t very much disturbed. I
presume it would have been the customary thing to scream and faint, and
have all of you running about in picturesque costumes. But, after the
first alarm was over, I really couldn’t work myself up to a panic. The
ghost retired from the stage quietly and peacefully, after doing its
little turn, and I went to sleep again.”

Nearly all listened, politely accepted Mrs. Bellmore’s story as a
made-up affair, charitably offered as an offset to the unkind vision
seen by Mrs. Fischer-Suympkins. But one or two present perceived that
her assertions bore the genuine stamp of her own convictions. Truth and
candour seemed to attend upon every word. Even a scoffer at ghosts—if
he were very observant—would have been forced to admit that she had, at
least in a very vivid dream, been honestly aware of the weird visitor.’

Soon Mrs. Bellmore’s maid was packing. In two hours the auto would come
to convey her to the station. As Terence was strolling upon the east
piazza, Mrs. Bellmore came up to him, with a confidential sparkle in
her eye.

“I didn’t wish to tell the others all of it,” she said, “but I will
tell you. In a way, I think you should be held responsible. Can you
guess in what manner that ghost awakened me last night?”

“Rattled chains,” suggested Terence, after some thought, “or groaned?
They usually do one or the other.”

“Do you happen to know,” continued Mrs. Bellmore, with sudden
irrelevancy, “if I resemble any one of the female relatives of your
restless ancestor, Captain Kinsolving?”

“Don’t think so,” said Terence, with an extremely puzzled air. “Never
heard of any of them being noted beauties.”

“Then, why,” said Mrs. Bellmore, looking the young man gravely in the
eye, “should that ghost have kissed me, as I’m sure it did?”

“Heavens!” exclaimed Terence, in wide-eyed amazement; “you don’t mean
that, Mrs. Bellmore! Did he actually kiss you?”

“I said _it_,” corrected Mrs. Bellmore. “I hope the impersonal pronoun
is correctly used.”

“But why did you say I was responsible?”

“Because you are the only living male relative of the ghost.”

“I see. ‘Unto the third and fourth generation.’ But, seriously, did
he—did it—how do you—?”

“Know? How does any one know? I was asleep, and that is what awakened
me, I’m almost certain.”

“Almost?”

“Well, I awoke just as—oh, can’t you understand what I mean? When
anything arouses you suddenly, you are not positive whether you
dreamed, or—and yet you know that— Dear me, Terence, must I dissect the
most elementary sensations in order to accommodate your extremely
practical intelligence?”

“But, about kissing ghosts, you know,” said Terence, humbly, “I require
the most primary instruction. I never kissed a ghost. Is it—is it—?”

“The sensation,” said Mrs. Bellmore, with deliberate, but slightly
smiling, emphasis, “since you are seeking instruction, is a mingling of
the material and the spiritual.”

“Of course,” said Terence, suddenly growing serious, “it was a dream or
some kind of an hallucination. Nobody believes in spirits, these days.
If you told the tale out of kindness of heart, Mrs. Bellmore, I can’t
express how grateful I am to you. It has made my mother supremely
happy. That Revolutionary ancestor was a stunning idea.”

Mrs. Bellmore sighed. “The usual fate of ghost-seers is mine,” she
said, resignedly. “My privileged encounter with a spirit is attributed
to lobster salad or mendacity. Well, I have, at least, one memory left
from the wreck—a kiss from the unseen world. Was Captain Kinsolving a
very brave man, do you know, Terence?”

“He was licked at Yorktown, I believe,” said Terence, reflecting. “They
say he skedaddled with his company, after the first battle there.”

“I thought he must have been timid,” said Mrs. Bellmore, absently. “He
might have had another.”

“Another battle?” asked Terence, dully.

“What else could I mean? I must go and get ready now; the auto will be
here in an hour. I’ve enjoyed Clifftop immensely. Such a lovely
morning, isn’t it, Terence?”

On her way to the station, Mrs. Bellmore took from her bag a silk
handkerchief, and looked at it with a little peculiar smile. Then she
tied it in several very hard knots, and threw it, at a convenient
moment, over the edge of the cliff along which the road ran.

In his room, Terence was giving some directions to his man, Brooks.
“Have this stuff done up in a parcel,” he said, “and ship it to the
address on that card.”

The card was that of a New York costumer. The “stuff” was a gentleman’s
costume of the days of ’76, made of white satin, with silver buckles,
white silk stockings, and white kid shoes. A powdered wig and a sword
completed the dress.

“And look about, Brooks,” added Terence, a little anxiously, “for a
silk handkerchief with my initials in one corner. I must have dropped
it somewhere.”

It was a month later when Mrs. Bellmore and one or two others of the
smart crowd were making up a list of names for a coaching trip through
the Catskills. Mrs. Bellmore looked over the list for a final
censoring. The name of Terence Kinsolving was there. Mrs. Bellmore ran
her prohibitive pencil lightly through the name.

“Too shy!” she murmured, sweetly, in explanation.




XI.
JIMMY HAYES AND MURIEL


I

Supper was over, and there had fallen upon the camp the silence that
accompanies the rolling of corn-husk cigarettes. The water hole shone
from the dark earth like a patch of fallen sky. Coyotes yelped. Dull
thumps indicated the rocking-horse movements of the hobbled ponies as
they moved to fresh grass. A half-troop of the Frontier Battalion of
Texas Rangers were distributed about the fire.

A well-known sound—the fluttering and scraping of chaparral against
wooden stirrups—came from the thick brush above the camp. The rangers
listened cautiously. They heard a loud and cheerful voice call out
reassuringly:

“Brace up, Muriel, old girl, we’re ’most there now! Been a long ride
for ye, ain’t it, ye old antediluvian handful of animated carpet-tacks?
Hey, now, quit a tryin’ to kiss me! Don’t hold on to my neck so
tight—this here paint hoss ain’t any too shore-footed, let me tell ye.
He’s liable to dump us both off if we don’t watch out.”

Two minutes of waiting brought a tired “paint” pony single-footing into
camp. A gangling youth of twenty lolled in the saddle. Of the “Muriel”
whom he had been addressing, nothing was to be seen.

“Hi, fellows!” shouted the rider cheerfully. “This here’s a letter fer
Lieutenant Manning.”

He dismounted, unsaddled, dropped the coils of his stake-rope, and got
his hobbles from the saddle-horn. While Lieutenant Manning, in command,
was reading the letter, the newcomer, rubbed solicitously at some dried
mud in the loops of the hobbles, showing a consideration for the
forelegs of his mount.

“Boys,” said the lieutenant, waving his hand to the rangers, “this is
Mr. James Hayes. He’s a new member of the company. Captain McLean sends
him down from El Paso. The boys will see that you have some supper,
Hayes, as soon as you get your pony hobbled.”

The recruit was received cordially by the rangers. Still, they observed
him shrewdly and with suspended judgment. Picking a comrade on the
border is done with ten times the care and discretion with which a girl
chooses a sweetheart. On your “side-kicker’s” nerve, loyalty, aim, and
coolness your own life may depend many times.

After a hearty supper Hayes joined the smokers about the fire. His
appearance did not settle all the questions in the minds of his brother
rangers. They saw simply a loose, lank youth with tow-coloured,
sun-burned hair and a berry-brown, ingenuous face that wore a
quizzical, good-natured smile.

“Fellows,” said the new ranger, “I’m goin’ to interduce to you a lady
friend of mine. Ain’t ever heard anybody call her a beauty, but you’ll
all admit she’s got some fine points about her. Come along, Muriel!”

He held open the front of his blue flannel shirt. Out of it crawled a
horned frog. A bright red ribbon was tied jauntily around its spiky
neck. It crawled to its owner’s knee and sat there, motionless.

“This here Muriel,” said Hayes, with an oratorical wave of his hand,
“has got qualities. She never talks back, she always stays at home, and
she’s satisfied with one red dress for every day and Sunday, too.”

“Look at that blame insect!” said one of the rangers with a grin. “I’ve
seen plenty of them horny frogs, but I never knew anybody to have one
for a side-partner. Does the blame thing know you from anybody else?”

“Take it over there and see,” said Hayes.

The stumpy little lizard known as the horned frog is harmless. He has
the hideousness of the prehistoric monsters whose reduced descendant he
is, but he is gentler than the dove.

The ranger took Muriel from Hayes’s knee and went back to his seat on a
roll of blankets. The captive twisted and clawed and struggled
vigorously in his hand. After holding it for a moment or two, the
ranger set it upon the ground. Awkwardly, but swiftly the frog worked
its four oddly moving legs until it stopped close by Hayes’s foot.

“Well, dang my hide!” said the other ranger. “The little cuss knows
you. Never thought them insects had that much sense!”


II

Jimmy Hayes became a favourite in the ranger camp. He had an endless
store of good-nature, and a mild, perennial quality of humour that is
well adapted to camp life. He was never without his horned frog. In the
bosom of his shirt during rides, on his knee or shoulder in camp, under
his blankets at night, the ugly little beast never left him.

Jimmy was a humourist of a type that prevails in the rural South and
West. Unskilled in originating methods of amusing or in witty
conceptions, he had hit upon a comical idea and clung to it reverently.
It had seemed to Jimmy a very funny thing to have about his person,
with which to amuse his friends, a tame horned frog with a red ribbon
around its neck. As it was a happy idea, why not perpetuate it?

The sentiments existing between Jimmy and the frog cannot be exactly
determined. The capability of the horned frog for lasting affection is
a subject upon which we have had no symposiums. It is easier to guess
Jimmy’s feelings. Muriel was his _chef d’œuvre_ of wit, and as such he
cherished her. He caught flies for her, and shielded her from sudden
northers. Yet his care was half selfish, and when the time came she
repaid him a thousand fold. Other Muriels have thus overbalanced the
light attentions of other Jimmies.

Not at once did Jimmy Hayes attain full brotherhood with his comrades.
They loved him for his simplicity and drollness, but there hung above
him a great sword of suspended judgment. To make merry in camp is not
all of a ranger’s life. There are horse-thieves to trail, desperate
criminals to run down, bravos to battle with, bandits to rout out of
the chaparral, peace and order to be compelled at the muzzle of a
six-shooter. Jimmy had been “’most generally a cow-puncher,” he said;
he was inexperienced in ranger methods of warfare. Therefore the
rangers speculated apart and solemnly as to how he would stand fire.
For, let it be known, the honour and pride of each ranger company is
the individual bravery of its members.

For two months the border was quiet. The rangers lolled, listless, in
camp. And then—bringing joy to the rusting guardians of the
frontier—Sebastiano Saldar, an eminent Mexican desperado and
cattle-thief, crossed the Rio Grande with his gang and began to lay
waste the Texas side. There were indications that Jimmy Hayes would
soon have the opportunity to show his mettle. The rangers patrolled
with alacrity, but Saldar’s men were mounted like Lochinvar, and were
hard to catch.

One evening, about sundown, the rangers halted for supper after a long
ride. Their horses stood panting, with their saddles on. The men were
frying bacon and boiling coffee. Suddenly, out of the brush, Sebastiano
Saldar and his gang dashed upon them with blazing six-shooters and
high-voiced yells. It was a neat surprise. The rangers swore in annoyed
tones, and got their Winchesters busy; but the attack was only a
spectacular dash of the purest Mexican type. After the florid
demonstration the raiders galloped away, yelling, down the river. The
rangers mounted and pursued; but in less than two miles the fagged
ponies laboured so that Lieutenant Manning gave the word to abandon the
chase and return to the camp.

Then it was discovered that Jimmy Hayes was missing. Some one
remembered having seen him run for his pony when the attack began, but
no one had set eyes on him since. Morning came, but no Jimmy. They
searched the country around, on the theory that he had been killed or
wounded, but without success. Then they followed after Saldar’s gang,
but it seemed to have disappeared. Manning concluded that the wily
Mexican had recrossed the river after his theatric farewell. And,
indeed, no further depredations from him were reported.

This gave the rangers time to nurse a soreness they had. As has been
said, the pride and honour of the company is the individual bravery of
its members. And now they believed that Jimmy Hayes had turned coward
at the whiz of Mexican bullets. There was no other deduction. Buck
Davis pointed out that not a shot was fired by Saldar’s gang after
Jimmy was seen running for his horse. There was no way for him to have
been shot. No, he had fled from his first fight, and afterward he would
not return, aware that the scorn of his comrades would be a worse thing
to face than the muzzles of many rifles.

So Manning’s detachment of McLean’s company, Frontier Battalion, was
gloomy. It was the first blot on its escutcheon. Never before in the
history of the service had a ranger shown the white feather. All of
them had liked Jimmy Hayes, and that made it worse.

Days, weeks, and months went by, and still that little cloud of
unforgotten cowardice hung above the camp.


III

Nearly a year afterward—after many camping grounds and many hundreds of
miles guarded and defended—Lieutenant Manning, with almost the same
detachment of men, was sent to a point only a few miles below their old
camp on the river to look after some smuggling there. One afternoon,
while they were riding through a dense mesquite flat, they came upon a
patch of open hog-wallow prairie. There they rode upon the scene of an
unwritten tragedy.

In a big hog-wallow lay the skeletons of three Mexicans. Their clothing
alone served to identify them. The largest of the figures had once been
Sebastiano Saldar. His great, costly sombrero, heavy with gold
ornamentation—a hat famous all along the Rio Grande—lay there pierced
by three bullets. Along the ridge of the hog-wallow rested the rusting
Winchesters of the Mexicans—all pointing in the same direction.

The rangers rode in that direction for fifty yards. There, in a little
depression of the ground, with his rifle still bearing upon the three,
lay another skeleton. It had been a battle of extermination. There was
nothing to identify the solitary defender. His clothing—such as the
elements had left distinguishable—seemed to be of the kind that any
ranchman or cowboy might have worn.

“Some cow-puncher,” said Manning, “that they caught out alone. Good
boy! He put up a dandy scrap before they got him. So that’s why we
didn’t hear from Don Sebastiano any more!”

And then, from beneath the weather-beaten rags of the dead man, there
wriggled out a horned frog with a faded red ribbon around its neck, and
sat upon the shoulder of its long quiet master. Mutely it told the
story of the untried youth and the swift “paint” pony—how they had
outstripped all their comrades that day in the pursuit of the Mexican
raiders, and how the boy had gone down upholding the honour of the
company.

The ranger troop herded close, and a simultaneous wild yell arose from
their lips. The outburst was at once a dirge, an apology, an epitaph,
and a pæan of triumph. A strange requiem, you may say, over the body of
a fallen, comrade; but if Jimmy Hayes could have heard it he would have
understood.




XII.
THE DOOR OF UNREST


I sat an hour by sun, in the editor’s room of the Montopolis _Weekly
Bugle_. I was the editor.

The saffron rays of the declining sunlight filtered through the
cornstalks in Micajah Widdup’s garden-patch, and cast an amber glory
upon my paste-pot. I sat at the editorial desk in my non-rotary
revolving chair, and prepared my editorial against the oligarchies. The
room, with its one window, was already a prey to the twilight. One by
one, with my trenchant sentences, I lopped off the heads of the
political hydra, while I listened, full of kindly peace, to the
home-coming cow-bells and wondered what Mrs. Flanagan was going to have
for supper.

Then in from the dusky, quiet street there drifted and perched himself
upon a corner of my desk old Father Time’s younger brother. His face
was beardless and as gnarled as an English walnut. I never saw clothes
such as he wore. They would have reduced Joseph’s coat to a monochrome.
But the colours were not the dyer’s. Stains and patches and the work of
sun and rust were responsible for the diversity. On his coarse shoes
was the dust, conceivably, of a thousand leagues. I can describe him no
further, except to say that he was little and weird and old—old I began
to estimate in centuries when I saw him. Yes, and I remember that there
was an odour, a faint odour like aloes, or possibly like myrrh or
leather; and I thought of museums.

And then I reached for a pad and pencil, for business is business, and
visits of the oldest inhabitants are sacred and honourable, requiring
to be chronicled.

“I am glad to see you, sir,” I said. “I would offer you a chair,
but—you see, sir,” I went on, “I have lived in Montopolis only three
weeks, and I have not met many of our citizens.” I turned a doubtful
eye upon his dust-stained shoes, and concluded with a newspaper phrase,
“I suppose that you reside in our midst?”

My visitor fumbled in his raiment, drew forth a soiled card, and handed
it to me. Upon it was written, in plain but unsteadily formed
characters, the name “Michob Ader.”

“I am glad you called, Mr. Ader,” I said. “As one of our older
citizens, you must view with pride the recent growth and enterprise of
Montopolis. Among other improvements, I think I can promise that the
town will now be provided with a live, enterprising newspa—”

“Do ye know the name on that card?” asked my caller, interrupting me.

“It is not a familiar one to me,” I said.

Again he visited the depths of his ancient vestments. This time he
brought out a torn leaf of some book or journal, brown and flimsy with
age. The heading of the page was the _Turkish Spy_ in old-style type;
the printing upon it was this:

“There is a man come to Paris in this year 1643 who pretends to have
lived these sixteen hundred years. He says of himself that he was a
shoemaker in Jerusalem at the time of the Crucifixion; that his name is
Michob Ader; and that when Jesus, the Christian Messias, was condemned
by Pontius Pilate, the Roman president, he paused to rest while bearing
his cross to the place of crucifixion before the door of Michob Ader.
The shoemaker struck Jesus with his fist, saying: ‘Go; why tarriest
thou?’ The Messias answered him: ‘I indeed am going; but thou shalt
tarry until I come’; thereby condemning him to live until the day of
judgment. He lives forever, but at the end of every hundred years he
falls into a fit or trance, on recovering from which he finds himself
in the same state of youth in which he was when Jesus suffered, being
then about thirty years of age.

“Such is the story of the Wandering Jew, as told by Michob Ader, who
relates—” Here the printing ended.

I must have muttered aloud something to myself about the Wandering Jew,
for the old man spake up, bitterly and loudly.

“’Tis a lie,” said he, “like nine tenths of what ye call history. ’Tis
a Gentile I am, and no Jew. I am after footing it out of Jerusalem, my
son; but if that makes me a Jew, then everything that comes out of a
bottle is babies’ milk. Ye have my name on the card ye hold; and ye
have read the bit of paper they call the _Turkish Spy_ that printed the
news when I stepped into their office on the 12th day of June, in the
year 1643, just as I have called upon ye to-day.”

I laid down my pencil and pad. Clearly it would not do. Here was an
item for the local column of the _Bugle_ that—but it would not do.
Still, fragments of the impossible “personal” began to flit through my
conventionalized brain. “Uncle Michob is as spry on his legs as a young
chap of only a thousand or so.” “Our venerable caller relates with
pride that George Wash—no, Ptolemy the Great—once dandled him on his
knee at his father’s house.” “Uncle Michob says that our wet spring was
nothing in comparison with the dampness that ruined the crops around
Mount Ararat when he was a boy—” But no, no—it would not do.

I was trying to think of some conversational subject with which to
interest my visitor, and was hesitating between walking matches and the
Pliocene age, when the old man suddenly began to weep poignantly and
distressfully.

“Cheer up, Mr. Ader,” I said, a little awkwardly; “this matter may blow
over in a few hundred years more. There has already been a decided
reaction in favour of Judas Iscariot and Colonel Burr and the
celebrated violinist, Signor Nero. This is the age of whitewash. You
must not allow yourself to become down-hearted.”

Unknowingly, I had struck a chord. The old man blinked belligerently
through his senile tears.

“’Tis time,” he said, “that the liars be doin’ justice to somebody. Yer
historians are no more than a pack of old women gabblin’ at a wake. A
finer man than the Imperor Nero niver wore sandals. Man, I was at the
burnin’ of Rome. I knowed the Imperor well, for in them days I was a
well-known char-acter. In thim days they had rayspect for a man that
lived forever.

“But ’twas of the Imperor Nero I was goin’ to tell ye. I struck into
Rome, up the Appian Way, on the night of July the 16th, the year 64. I
had just stepped down by way of Siberia and Afghanistan; and one foot
of me had a frost-bite, and the other a blister burned by the sand of
the desert; and I was feelin’ a bit blue from doin’ patrol duty from
the North Pole down to the Last Chance corner in Patagonia, and bein’
miscalled a Jew in the bargain. Well, I’m tellin’ ye I was passin’ the
Circus Maximus, and it was dark as pitch over the way, and then I heard
somebody sing out, ‘Is that you, Michob?’

“Over ag’inst the wall, hid out amongst a pile of barrels and old
dry-goods boxes, was the Imperor Nero wid his togy wrapped around his
toes, smokin’ a long, black segar.

“‘Have one, Michob?’ says he.

“‘None of the weeds for me,’ says I—‘nayther pipe nor segar. What’s the
use,’ says I, ‘of smokin’ when ye’ve not got the ghost of a chance of
killin’ yeself by doin’ it?’

“‘True for ye, Michob Ader, my perpetual Jew,’ says the Imperor; ‘ye’re
not always wandering. Sure, ’tis danger gives the spice of our
pleasures—next to their bein’ forbidden.’

“‘And for what,’ says I, ‘do ye smoke be night in dark places widout
even a cinturion in plain clothes to attend ye?’

“‘Have ye ever heard, Michob,’ says the Imperor, ‘of
predestinarianism?’

“‘I’ve had the cousin of it,’ says I. ‘I’ve been on the trot with
pedestrianism for many a year, and more to come, as ye well know.’

“‘The longer word,’ says me friend Nero, ‘is the tachin’ of this new
sect of people they call the Christians. ’Tis them that’s raysponsible
for me smokin’ be night in holes and corners of the dark.’

“And then I sets down and takes off a shoe and rubs me foot that is
frosted, and the Imperor tells me about it. It seems that since I
passed that way before, the Imperor had mandamused the Impress wid a
divorce suit, and Misses Poppæa, a cilibrated lady, was ingaged, widout
riferences, as housekeeper at the palace. ‘All in one day,’ says the
Imperor, ‘she puts up new lace windy-curtains in the palace and joins
the anti-tobacco society, and whin I feels the need of a smoke I must
be after sneakin’ out to these piles of lumber in the dark.’ So there
in the dark me and the Imperor sat, and I told him of me travels. And
when they say the Imperor was an incindiary, they lie. ’Twas that night
the fire started that burnt the city. ’Tis my opinion that it began
from a stump of segar that he threw down among the boxes. And ’tis a
lie that he fiddled. He did all he could for six days to stop it, sir.”

And now I detected a new flavour to Mr. Michob Ader. It had not been
myrrh or balm or hyssop that I had smelled. The emanation was the odour
of bad whiskey—and, worse still, of low comedy—the sort that small
humorists manufacture by clothing the grave and reverend things of
legend and history in the vulgar, topical frippery that passes for a
certain kind of wit. Michob Ader as an impostor, claiming nineteen
hundred years, and playing his part with the decency of respectable
lunacy, I could endure; but as a tedious wag, cheapening his egregious
story with song-book levity, his importance as an entertainer grew
less.

And then, as if he suspected my thoughts, he suddenly shifted his key.

“You’ll excuse me, sir,” he whined, “but sometimes I get a little mixed
in my head. I am a very old man; and it is hard to remember
everything.”

I knew that he was right, and that I should not try to reconcile him
with Roman history; so I asked for news concerning other ancients with
whom he had walked familiar.

Above my desk hung an engraving of Raphael’s cherubs. You could yet
make out their forms, though the dust blurred their outlines strangely.

“Ye calls them ‘cher-rubs’,” cackled the old man. “Babes, ye fancy they
are, with wings. And there’s one wid legs and a bow and arrow that ye
call Cupid—I know where they was found. The
great-great-great-grandfather of thim all was a billy-goat. Bein’ an
editor, sir, do ye happen to know where Solomon’s Temple stood?”

I fancied that it was in—in Persia? Well, I did not know.

“’Tis not in history nor in the Bible where it was. But I saw it,
meself. The first pictures of cher-rubs and cupids was sculptured upon
thim walls and pillars. Two of the biggest, sir, stood in the adytum to
form the baldachin over the Ark. But the wings of thim sculptures was
intindid for horns. And the faces was the faces of goats. Ten thousand
goats there was in and about the temple. And your cher-rubs was
billy-goats in the days of King Solomon, but the painters misconstrued
the horns into wings.

“And I knew Tamerlane, the lame Timour, sir, very well. I saw him at
Keghut and at Zaranj. He was a little man no larger than yerself, with
hair the colour of an amber pipe stem. They buried him at Samarkand. I
was at the wake, sir. Oh, he was a fine-built man in his coffin, six
feet long, with black whiskers to his face. And I see ’em throw turnips
at the Imperor Vispacian in Africa. All over the world I have tramped,
sir, without the body of me findin’ any rest. ’Twas so commanded. I saw
Jerusalem destroyed, and Pompeii go up in the fireworks; and I was at
the coronation of Charlemagne and the lynchin’ of Joan of Arc. And
everywhere I go there comes storms and revolutions and plagues and
fires. ’Twas so commanded. Ye have heard of the Wandering Jew. ’Tis all
so, except that divil a bit am I a Jew. But history lies, as I have
told ye. Are ye quite sure, sir, that ye haven’t a drop of whiskey
convenient? Ye well know that I have many miles of walking before me.”

“I have none,” said I, “and, if you please, I am about to leave for my
supper.”

I pushed my chair back creakingly. This ancient landlubber was becoming
as great an affliction as any cross-bowed mariner. He shook a musty
effluvium from his piebald clothes, overturned my inkstand, and went on
with his insufferable nonsense.

“I wouldn’t mind it so much,” he complained, “if it wasn’t for the work
I must do on Good Fridays. Ye know about Pontius Pilate, sir, of
course. His body, whin he killed himself, was pitched into a lake on
the Alps mountains. Now, listen to the job that ’tis mine to perform on
the night of ivery Good Friday. The ould divil goes down in the pool
and drags up Pontius, and the water is bilin’ and spewin’ like a wash
pot. And the ould divil sets the body on top of a throne on the rocks,
and thin comes me share of the job. Oh, sir, ye would pity me thin—ye
would pray for the poor Wandering Jew that niver was a Jew if ye could
see the horror of the thing that I must do. ’Tis I that must fetch a
bowl of water and kneel down before it till it washes its hands. I
declare to ye that Pontius Pilate, a man dead two hundred years,
dragged up with the lake slime coverin’ him and fishes wrigglin’ inside
of him widout eyes, and in the discomposition of the body, sits there,
sir, and washes his hands in the bowl I hold for him on Good Fridays.
’Twas so commanded.”

Clearly, the matter had progressed far beyond the scope of the
_Bugle’s_ local column. There might have been employment here for the
alienist or for those who circulate the pledge; but I had had enough of
it. I got up, and repeated that I must go.

At this he seized my coat, grovelled upon my desk, and burst again into
distressful weeping. Whatever it was about, I said to myself that his
grief was genuine.

“Come now, Mr. Ader,” I said, soothingly; “what is the matter?”

The answer came brokenly through his racking sobs:

“Because I would not … let the poor Christ … rest … upon the step.”

His hallucination seemed beyond all reasonable answer; yet the effect
of it upon him scarcely merited disrespect. But I knew nothing that
might assuage it; and I told him once more that both of us should be
leaving the office at once.

Obedient at last, he raised himself from my dishevelled desk, and
permitted me to half lift him to the floor. The gale of his grief had
blown away his words; his freshet of tears had soaked away the crust of
his grief. Reminiscence died in him—at least, the coherent part of it.

“’Twas me that did it,” he muttered, as I led him toward the door—“me,
the shoemaker of Jerusalem.”

I got him to the sidewalk, and in the augmented light I saw that his
face was seared and lined and warped by a sadness almost incredibly the
product of a single lifetime.

And then high up in the firmamental darkness we heard the clamant cries
of some great, passing birds. My Wandering Jew lifted his hand, with
side-tilted head.

“The Seven Whistlers!” he said, as one introduces well-known friends.

“Wild geese,” said I; “but I confess that their number is beyond me.”

“They follow me everywhere,” he said. “’Twas so commanded. What ye hear
is the souls of the seven Jews that helped with the Crucifixion.
Sometimes they’re plovers and sometimes geese, but ye’ll find them
always flyin’ where I go.”

I stood, uncertain how to take my leave. I looked down the street,
shuffled my feet, looked back again—and felt my hair rise. The old man
had disappeared.

And then my capillaries relaxed, for I dimly saw him footing it away
through the darkness. But he walked so swiftly and silently and
contrary to the gait promised by his age that my composure was not all
restored, though I knew not why.

That night I was foolish enough to take down some dust-covered volumes
from my modest shelves. I searched “Hermippus Redivvus” and “Salathiel”
and the “Pepys Collection” in vain. And then in a book called “The
Citizen of the World,” and in one two centuries old, I came upon what I
desired. Michob Ader had indeed come to Paris in the year 1643, and
related to the _Turkish Spy_ an extraordinary story. He claimed to be
the Wandering Jew, and that—

But here I fell asleep, for my editorial duties had not been light that
day.

Judge Hoover was the _Bugle’s_ candidate for congress. Having to confer
with him, I sought his home early the next morning; and we walked
together down town through a little street with which I was unfamiliar.

“Did you ever hear of Michob Ader?” I asked him, smiling.

“Why, yes,” said the judge. “And that reminds me of my shoes he has for
mending. Here is his shop now.”

Judge Hoover stepped into a dingy, small shop. I looked up at the sign,
and saw “Mike O’Bader, Boot and Shoe Maker,” on it. Some wild geese
passed above, honking clearly. I scratched my ear and frowned, and then
trailed into the shop.

There sat my Wandering Jew on his shoemaker’s bench, trimming a
half-sole. He was drabbled with dew, grass-stained, unkempt, and
miserable; and on his face was still the unexplained wretchedness, the
problematic sorrow, the esoteric woe, that had been written there by
nothing less, it seemed, than the stylus of the centuries.

Judge Hoover inquired kindly concerning his shoes. The old shoemaker
looked up, and spoke sanely enough. He had been ill, he said, for a few
days. The next day the shoes would be ready. He looked at me, and I
could see that I had no place in his memory. So out we went, and on our
way.

“Old Mike,” remarked the candidate, “has been on one of his sprees. He
gets crazy drunk regularly once a month. But he’s a good shoemaker.”

“What is his history?” I inquired.

“Whiskey,” epitomized Judge Hoover. “That explains him.”

I was silent, but I did not accept the explanation. And so, when I had
the chance, I asked old man Sellers, who browsed daily on my exchanges.

“Mike O’Bader,” said he, “was makin’ shoes in Montopolis when I come
here goin’ on fifteen year ago. I guess whiskey’s his trouble. Once a
month he gets off the track, and stays so a week. He’s got a rigmarole
somethin’ about his bein’ a Jew pedler that he tells ev’rybody. Nobody
won’t listen to him any more. When he’s sober he ain’t sich a fool—he’s
got a sight of books in the back room of his shop that he reads. I
guess you can lay all his trouble to whiskey.”

But again I would not. Not yet was my Wandering Jew rightly construed
for me. I trust that women may not be allowed a title to all the
curiosity in the world. So when Montopolis’s oldest inhabitant (some
ninety score years younger than Michob Ader) dropped in to acquire
promulgation in print, I siphoned his perpetual trickle of reminiscence
in the direction of the uninterpreted maker of shoes.

Uncle Abner was the Complete History of Montopolis, bound in butternut.

“O’Bader,” he quavered, “come here in ’69. He was the first shoemaker
in the place. Folks generally considers him crazy at times now. But he
don’t harm nobody. I s’pose drinkin’ upset his mind—yes, drinkin’ very
likely done it. It’s a powerful bad thing, drinkin’. I’m an old, old
man, sir, and I never see no good in drinkin’.”

I felt disappointment. I was willing to admit drink in the case of my
shoemaker, but I preferred it as a recourse instead of a cause. Why had
he pitched upon his perpetual, strange note of the Wandering Jew? Why
his unutterable grief during his aberration? I could not yet accept
whiskey as an explanation.

“Did Mike O’Bader ever have a great loss or trouble of any kind?” I
asked.

“Lemme see! About thirty year ago there was somethin’ of the kind, I
recollect. Montopolis, sir, in them days used to be a mighty strict
place.

“Well, Mike O’Bader had a daughter then—a right pretty girl. She was
too gay a sort for Montopolis, so one day she slips off to another town
and runs away with a circus. It was two years before she comes back,
all fixed up in fine clothes and rings and jewellery, to see Mike. He
wouldn’t have nothin’ to do with her, so she stays around town awhile,
anyway. I reckon the men folks wouldn’t have raised no objections, but
the women egged ’em on to order her to leave town. But she had plenty
of spunk, and told ’em to mind their own business.

“So one night they decided to run her away. A crowd of men and women
drove her out of her house, and chased her with sticks and stones. She
run to her father’s door, callin’ for help. Mike opens it, and when he
sees who it is he hits her with his fist and knocks her down and shuts
the door.

“And then the crowd kept on chunkin’ her till she run clear out of
town. And the next day they finds her drowned dead in Hunter’s mill
pond. I mind it all now. That was thirty year ago.”

I leaned back in my non-rotary revolving chair and nodded gently, like
a mandarin, at my paste-pot.

“When old Mike has a spell,” went on Uncle Abner, tepidly garrulous,
“he thinks he’s the Wanderin’ Jew.”

“He is,” said I, nodding away.

And Uncle Abner cackled insinuatingly at the editor’s remark, for he
was expecting at least a “stickful” in the “Personal Notes” of the
_Bugle_.




XIII.
THE DUPLICITY OF HARGRAVES


When Major Pendleton Talbot, of Mobile, sir, and his daughter, Miss
Lydia Talbot, came to Washington to reside, they selected for a
boarding place a house that stood fifty yards back from one of the
quietest avenues. It was an old-fashioned brick building, with a
portico upheld by tall white pillars. The yard was shaded by stately
locusts and elms, and a catalpa tree in season rained its pink and
white blossoms upon the grass. Rows of high box bushes lined the fence
and walks. It was the Southern style and aspect of the place that
pleased the eyes of the Talbots.

In this pleasant, private boarding house they engaged rooms, including
a study for Major Talbot, who was adding the finishing chapters to his
book, “Anecdotes and Reminiscences of the Alabama Army, Bench, and
Bar.”

Major Talbot was of the old, old South. The present day had little
interest or excellence in his eyes. His mind lived in that period
before the Civil War, when the Talbots owned thousands of acres of fine
cotton land and the slaves to till them; when the family mansion was
the scene of princely hospitality, and drew its guests from the
aristocracy of the South. Out of that period he had brought all its old
pride and scruples of honour, an antiquated and punctilious politeness,
and (you would think) its wardrobe.

Such clothes were surely never made within fifty years. The major was
tall, but whenever he made that wonderful, archaic genuflexion he
called a bow, the corners of his frock coat swept the floor. That
garment was a surprise even to Washington, which has long ago ceased to
shy at the frocks and broadbrimmed hats of Southern congressmen. One of
the boarders christened it a “Father Hubbard,” and it certainly was
high in the waist and full in the skirt.

But the major, with all his queer clothes, his immense area of plaited,
ravelling shirt bosom, and the little black string tie with the bow
always slipping on one side, both was smiled at and liked in Mrs.
Vardeman’s select boarding house. Some of the young department clerks
would often “string him,” as they called it, getting him started upon
the subject dearest to him—the traditions and history of his beloved
Southland. During his talks he would quote freely from the “Anecdotes
and Reminiscences.” But they were very careful not to let him see their
designs, for in spite of his sixty-eight years, he could make the
boldest of them uncomfortable under the steady regard of his piercing
gray eyes.

Miss Lydia was a plump, little old maid of thirty-five, with smoothly
drawn, tightly twisted hair that made her look still older. Old
fashioned, too, she was; but ante-bellum glory did not radiate from her
as it did from the major. She possessed a thrifty common sense; and it
was she who handled the finances of the family, and met all comers when
there were bills to pay. The major regarded board bills and wash bills
as contemptible nuisances. They kept coming in so persistently and so
often. Why, the major wanted to know, could they not be filed and paid
in a lump sum at some convenient period—say when the “Anecdotes and
Reminiscences” had been published and paid for? Miss Lydia would calmly
go on with her sewing and say, “We’ll pay as we go as long as the money
lasts, and then perhaps they’ll have to lump it.”

Most of Mrs. Vardeman’s boarders were away during the day, being nearly
all department clerks and business men; but there was one of them who
was about the house a great deal from morning to night. This was a
young man named Henry Hopkins Hargraves—every one in the house
addressed him by his full name—who was engaged at one of the popular
vaudeville theatres. Vaudeville has risen to such a respectable plane
in the last few years, and Mr. Hargraves was such a modest and
well-mannered person, that Mrs. Vardeman could find no objection to
enrolling him upon her list of boarders.

At the theatre Hargraves was known as an all-round dialect comedian,
having a large repertoire of German, Irish, Swede, and black-face
specialties. But Mr. Hargraves was ambitious, and often spoke of his
great desire to succeed in legitimate comedy.

This young man appeared to conceive a strong fancy for Major Talbot.
Whenever that gentleman would begin his Southern reminiscences, or
repeat some of the liveliest of the anecdotes, Hargraves could always
be found, the most attentive among his listeners.

For a time the major showed an inclination to discourage the advances
of the “play actor,” as he privately termed him; but soon the young
man’s agreeable manner and indubitable appreciation of the old
gentleman’s stories completely won him over.

It was not long before the two were like old chums. The major set apart
each afternoon to read to him the manuscript of his book. During the
anecdotes Hargraves never failed to laugh at exactly the right point.
The major was moved to declare to Miss Lydia one day that young
Hargraves possessed remarkable perception and a gratifying respect for
the old regime. And when it came to talking of those old days—if Major
Talbot liked to talk, Mr. Hargraves was entranced to listen.

Like almost all old people who talk of the past, the major loved to
linger over details. In describing the splendid, almost royal, days of
the old planters, he would hesitate until he had recalled the name of
the Negro who held his horse, or the exact date of certain minor
happenings, or the number of bales of cotton raised in such a year; but
Hargraves never grew impatient or lost interest. On the contrary, he
would advance questions on a variety of subjects connected with the
life of that time, and he never failed to extract ready replies.

The fox hunts, the ’possum suppers, the hoe downs and jubilees in the
Negro quarters, the banquets in the plantation-house hall, when
invitations went for fifty miles around; the occasional feuds with the
neighbouring gentry; the major’s duel with Rathbone Culbertson about
Kitty Chalmers, who afterward married a Thwaite of South Carolina; and
private yacht races for fabulous sums on Mobile Bay; the quaint
beliefs, improvident habits, and loyal virtues of the old slaves—all
these were subjects that held both the major and Hargraves absorbed for
hours at a time.

Sometimes, at night, when the young man would be coming upstairs to his
room after his turn at the theatre was over, the major would appear at
the door of his study and beckon archly to him. Going in, Hargraves
would find a little table set with a decanter, sugar bowl, fruit, and a
big bunch of fresh green mint.

“It occurred to me,” the major would begin—he was always
ceremonious—“that perhaps you might have found your duties at the—at
your place of occupation—sufficiently arduous to enable you, Mr.
Hargraves, to appreciate what the poet might well have had in his mind
when he wrote, ‘tired Nature’s sweet restorer,’—one of our Southern
juleps.”

It was a fascination to Hargraves to watch him make it. He took rank
among artists when he began, and he never varied the process. With what
delicacy he bruised the mint; with what exquisite nicety he estimated
the ingredients; with what solicitous care he capped the compound with
the scarlet fruit glowing against the dark green fringe! And then the
hospitality and grace with which he offered it, after the selected oat
straws had been plunged into its tinkling depths!

After about four months in Washington, Miss Lydia discovered one
morning that they were almost without money. The “Anecdotes and
Reminiscences” was completed, but publishers had not jumped at the
collected gems of Alabama sense and wit. The rental of a small house
which they still owned in Mobile was two months in arrears. Their board
money for the month would be due in three days. Miss Lydia called her
father to a consultation.

“No money?” said he with a surprised look. “It is quite annoying to be
called on so frequently for these petty sums. Really, I—”

The major searched his pockets. He found only a two-dollar bill, which
he returned to his vest pocket.

“I must attend to this at once, Lydia,” he said. “Kindly get me my
umbrella and I will go down town immediately. The congressman from our
district, General Fulghum, assured me some days ago that he would use
his influence to get my book published at an early date. I will go to
his hotel at once and see what arrangement has been made.”

With a sad little smile Miss Lydia watched him button his “Father
Hubbard” and depart, pausing at the door, as he always did, to bow
profoundly.

That evening, at dark, he returned. It seemed that Congressman Fulghum
had seen the publisher who had the major’s manuscript for reading. That
person had said that if the anecdotes, etc., were carefully pruned down
about one half, in order to eliminate the sectional and class prejudice
with which the book was dyed from end to end, he might consider its
publication.

The major was in a white heat of anger, but regained his equanimity,
according to his code of manners, as soon as he was in Miss Lydia’s
presence.

“We must have money,” said Miss Lydia, with a little wrinkle above her
nose. “Give me the two dollars, and I will telegraph to Uncle Ralph for
some to-night.”

The major drew a small envelope from his upper vest pocket and tossed
it on the table.

“Perhaps it was injudicious,” he said mildly, “but the sum was so
merely nominal that I bought tickets to the theatre to-night. It’s a
new war drama, Lydia. I thought you would be pleased to witness its
first production in Washington. I am told that the South has very fair
treatment in the play. I confess I should like to see the performance
myself.”

Miss Lydia threw up her hands in silent despair.

Still, as the tickets were bought, they might as well be used. So that
evening, as they sat in the theatre listening to the lively overture,
even Miss Lydia was minded to relegate their troubles, for the hour, to
second place. The major, in spotless linen, with his extraordinary coat
showing only where it was closely buttoned, and his white hair smoothly
roached, looked really fine and distinguished. The curtain went up on
the first act of “A Magnolia Flower,” revealing a typical Southern
plantation scene. Major Talbot betrayed some interest.

“Oh, see!” exclaimed Miss Lydia, nudging his arm, and pointing to her
programme.

The major put on his glasses and read the line in the cast of
characters that her finger indicated.

Col. Webster Calhoun . . . . H. Hopkins Hargraves.


“It’s our Mr. Hargraves,” said Miss Lydia. “It must be his first
appearance in what he calls ‘the legitimate.’ I’m so glad for him.”

Not until the second act did Col. Webster Calhoun appear upon the
stage. When he made his entry Major Talbot gave an audible sniff,
glared at him, and seemed to freeze solid. Miss Lydia uttered a little,
ambiguous squeak and crumpled her programme in her hand. For Colonel
Calhoun was made up as nearly resembling Major Talbot as one pea does
another. The long, thin white hair, curly at the ends, the aristocratic
beak of a nose, the crumpled, wide, ravelling shirt front, the string
tie, with the bow nearly under one ear, were almost exactly duplicated.
And then, to clinch the imitation, he wore the twin to the major’s
supposed to be unparalleled coat. High-collared, baggy, empire-waisted,
ample-skirted, hanging a foot lower in front than behind, the garment
could have been designed from no other pattern. From then on, the major
and Miss Lydia sat bewitched, and saw the counterfeit presentment of a
haughty Talbot “dragged,” as the major afterward expressed it, “through
the slanderous mire of a corrupt stage.”

Mr. Hargraves had used his opportunities well. He had caught the
major’s little idiosyncrasies of speech, accent, and intonation and his
pompous courtliness to perfection—exaggerating all to the purposes of
the stage. When he performed that marvellous bow that the major fondly
imagined to be the pink of all salutations, the audience sent forth a
sudden round of hearty applause.

Miss Lydia sat immovable, not daring to glance toward her father.
Sometimes her hand next to him would be laid against her cheek, as if
to conceal the smile which, in spite of her disapproval, she could not
entirely suppress.

The culmination of Hargraves’s audacious imitation took place in the
third act. The scene is where Colonel Calhoun entertains a few of the
neighbouring planters in his “den.”

Standing at a table in the centre of the stage, with his friends
grouped about him, he delivers that inimitable, rambling, character
monologue so famous in “A Magnolia Flower,” at the same time that he
deftly makes juleps for the party.

Major Talbot, sitting quietly, but white with indignation, heard his
best stories retold, his pet theories and hobbies advanced and
expanded, and the dream of the “Anecdotes and Reminiscences” served,
exaggerated and garbled. His favourite narrative—that of his duel with
Rathbone Culbertson—was not omitted, and it was delivered with more
fire, egotism, and gusto than the major himself put into it.

The monologue concluded with a quaint, delicious, witty little lecture
on the art of concocting a julep, illustrated by the act. Here Major
Talbot’s delicate but showy science was reproduced to a hair’s
breadth—from his dainty handling of the fragrant weed—“the
one-thousandth part of a grain too much pressure, gentlemen, and you
extract the bitterness, instead of the aroma, of this heaven-bestowed
plant”—to his solicitous selection of the oaten straws.

At the close of the scene the audience raised a tumultuous roar of
appreciation. The portrayal of the type was so exact, so sure and
thorough, that the leading characters in the play were forgotten. After
repeated calls, Hargraves came before the curtain and bowed, his rather
boyish face bright and flushed with the knowledge of success.

At last Miss Lydia turned and looked at the major. His thin nostrils
were working like the gills of a fish. He laid both shaking hands upon
the arms of his chair to rise.

“We will go, Lydia,” he said chokingly. “This is an
abominable—desecration.”

Before he could rise, she pulled him back into his seat. “We will stay
it out,” she declared. “Do you want to advertise the copy by exhibiting
the original coat?” So they remained to the end.

Hargraves’s success must have kept him up late that night, for neither
at the breakfast nor at the dinner table did he appear.

About three in the afternoon he tapped at the door of Major Talbot’s
study. The major opened it, and Hargraves walked in with his hands full
of the morning papers—too full of his triumph to notice anything
unusual in the major’s demeanour.

“I put it all over ’em last night, major,” he began exultantly. “I had
my inning, and, I think, scored. Here’s what the _Post_ says:

His conception and portrayal of the old-time Southern colonel, with his
absurd grandiloquence, his eccentric garb, his quaint idioms and
phrases, his moth-eaten pride of family, and his really kind heart,
fastidious sense of honour, and lovable simplicity, is the best
delineation of a character role on the boards to-day. The coat worn by
Colonel Calhoun is itself nothing less than an evolution of genius. Mr.
Hargraves has captured his public.


“How does that sound, major, for a first nighter?”

“I had the honour”—the major’s voice sounded ominously frigid—“of
witnessing your very remarkable performance, sir, last night.”

Hargraves looked disconcerted.

“You were there? I didn’t know you ever—I didn’t know you cared for the
theatre. Oh, I say, Major Talbot,” he exclaimed frankly, “don’t you be
offended. I admit I did get a lot of pointers from you that helped me
out wonderfully in the part. But it’s a type, you know—not individual.
The way the audience caught on shows that. Half the patrons of that
theatre are Southerners. They recognized it.”

“Mr. Hargraves,” said the major, who had remained standing, “you have
put upon me an unpardonable insult. You have burlesqued my person,
grossly betrayed my confidence, and misused my hospitality. If I
thought you possessed the faintest conception of what is the sign
manual of a gentleman, or what is due one, I would call you out, sir,
old as I am. I will ask you to leave the room, sir.”

The actor appeared to be slightly bewildered, and seemed hardly to take
in the full meaning of the old gentleman’s words.

“I am truly sorry you took offence,” he said regretfully. “Up here we
don’t look at things just as you people do. I know men who would buy
out half the house to have their personality put on the stage so the
public would recognize it.”

“They are not from Alabama, sir,” said the major haughtily.

“Perhaps not. I have a pretty good memory, major; let me quote a few
lines from your book. In response to a toast at a banquet given
in—Milledgeville, I believe—you uttered, and intend to have printed,
these words:

The Northern man is utterly without sentiment or warmth except in so
far as the feelings may be turned to his own commercial profit. He will
suffer without resentment any imputation cast upon the honour of
himself or his loved ones that does not bear with it the consequence of
pecuniary loss. In his charity, he gives with a liberal hand; but it
must be heralded with the trumpet and chronicled in brass.


“Do you think that picture is fairer than the one you saw of Colonel
Calhoun last night?”

“The description,” said the major frowning, “is—not without grounds.
Some exag—latitude must be allowed in public speaking.”

“And in public acting,” replied Hargraves.

“That is not the point,” persisted the major, unrelenting. “It was a
personal caricature. I positively decline to overlook it, sir.”

“Major Talbot,” said Hargraves, with a winning smile, “I wish you would
understand me. I want you to know that I never dreamed of insulting
you. In my profession, all life belongs to me. I take what I want, and
what I can, and return it over the footlights. Now, if you will, let’s
let it go at that. I came in to see you about something else. We’ve
been pretty good friends for some months, and I’m going to take the
risk of offending you again. I know you are hard up for money—never
mind how I found out; a boarding house is no place to keep such matters
secret—and I want you to let me help you out of the pinch. I’ve been
there often enough myself. I’ve been getting a fair salary all the
season, and I’ve saved some money. You’re welcome to a couple
hundred—or even more—until you get—”

“Stop!” commanded the major, with his arm outstretched. “It seems that
my book didn’t lie, after all. You think your money salve will heal all
the hurts of honour. Under no circumstances would I accept a loan from
a casual acquaintance; and as to you, sir, I would starve before I
would consider your insulting offer of a financial adjustment of the
circumstances we have discussed. I beg to repeat my request relative to
your quitting the apartment.”

Hargraves took his departure without another word. He also left the
house the same day, moving, as Mrs. Vardeman explained at the supper
table, nearer the vicinity of the down-town theatre, where “A Magnolia
Flower” was booked for a week’s run.

Critical was the situation with Major Talbot and Miss Lydia. There was
no one in Washington to whom the major’s scruples allowed him to apply
for a loan. Miss Lydia wrote a letter to Uncle Ralph, but it was
doubtful whether that relative’s constricted affairs would permit him
to furnish help. The major was forced to make an apologetic address to
Mrs. Vardeman regarding the delayed payment for board, referring to
“delinquent rentals” and “delayed remittances” in a rather confused
strain.

Deliverance came from an entirely unexpected source.

Late one afternoon the door maid came up and announced an old coloured
man who wanted to see Major Talbot. The major asked that he be sent up
to his study. Soon an old darkey appeared in the doorway, with his hat
in hand, bowing, and scraping with one clumsy foot. He was quite
decently dressed in a baggy suit of black. His big, coarse shoes shone
with a metallic lustre suggestive of stove polish. His bushy wool was
gray—almost white. After middle life, it is difficult to estimate the
age of a Negro. This one might have seen as many years as had Major
Talbot.

“I be bound you don’t know me, Mars’ Pendleton,” were his first words.

The major rose and came forward at the old, familiar style of address.
It was one of the old plantation darkeys without a doubt; but they had
been widely scattered, and he could not recall the voice or face.

“I don’t believe I do,” he said kindly—“unless you will assist my
memory.”

“Don’t you ’member Cindy’s Mose, Mars’ Pendleton, what ’migrated
’mediately after de war?”

“Wait a moment,” said the major, rubbing his forehead with the tips of
his fingers. He loved to recall everything connected with those beloved
days. “Cindy’s Mose,” he reflected. “You worked among the
horses—breaking the colts. Yes, I remember now. After the surrender,
you took the name of—don’t prompt me—Mitchell, and went to the West—to
Nebraska.”

“Yassir, yassir,”—the old man’s face stretched with a delighted
grin—“dat’s him, dat’s it. Newbraska. Dat’s me—Mose Mitchell. Old Uncle
Mose Mitchell, dey calls me now. Old mars’, your pa, gimme a pah of dem
mule colts when I lef’ fur to staht me goin’ with. You ’member dem
colts, Mars’ Pendleton?”

“I don’t seem to recall the colts,” said the major. “You know I was
married the first year of the war and living at the old Follinsbee
place. But sit down, sit down, Uncle Mose. I’m glad to see you. I hope
you have prospered.”

Uncle Mose took a chair and laid his hat carefully on the floor beside
it.

“Yassir; of late I done mouty famous. When I first got to Newbraska,
dey folks come all roun’ me to see dem mule colts. Dey ain’t see no
mules like dem in Newbraska. I sold dem mules for three hundred
dollars. Yassir—three hundred.

“Den I open a blacksmith shop, suh, and made some money and bought some
lan’. Me and my old ’oman done raised up seb’m chillun, and all doin’
well ’cept two of ’em what died. Fo’ year ago a railroad come along and
staht a town slam ag’inst my lan’, and, suh, Mars’ Pendleton, Uncle
Mose am worth leb’m thousand dollars in money, property, and lan’.”

“I’m glad to hear it,” said the major heartily. “Glad to hear it.”

“And dat little baby of yo’n, Mars’ Pendleton—one what you name Miss
Lyddy—I be bound dat little tad done growed up tell nobody wouldn’t
know her.”

The major stepped to the door and called: “Lydia, dear, will you come?”

Miss Lydia, looking quite grown up and a little worried, came in from
her room.

“Dar, now! What’d I tell you? I knowed dat baby done be plum growed up.
You don’t ’member Uncle Mose, child?”

“This is Aunt Cindy’s Mose, Lydia,” explained the major. “He left
Sunnymead for the West when you were two years old.”

“Well,” said Miss Lydia, “I can hardly be expected to remember you,
Uncle Mose, at that age. And, as you say, I’m ‘plum growed up,’ and was
a blessed long time ago. But I’m glad to see you, even if I can’t
remember you.”

And she was. And so was the major. Something alive and tangible had
come to link them with the happy past. The three sat and talked over
the olden times, the major and Uncle Mose correcting or prompting each
other as they reviewed the plantation scenes and days.

The major inquired what the old man was doing so far from his home.

“Uncle Mose am a delicate,” he explained, “to de grand Baptis’
convention in dis city. I never preached none, but bein’ a residin’
elder in de church, and able fur to pay my own expenses, dey sent me
along.”

“And how did you know we were in Washington?” inquired Miss Lydia.

“Dey’s a cullud man works in de hotel whar I stops, what comes from
Mobile. He told me he seen Mars’ Pendleton comin’ outen dish here house
one mawnin’.

“What I come fur,” continued Uncle Mose, reaching into his
pocket—“besides de sight of home folks—was to pay Mars’ Pendleton what
I owes him.”

“Owe me?” said the major, in surprise.

“Yassir—three hundred dollars.” He handed the major a roll of bills.
“When I lef’ old mars’ says: ‘Take dem mule colts, Mose, and, if it be
so you gits able, pay fur ’em’. Yassir—dem was his words. De war had
done lef’ old mars’ po’ hisself. Old mars’ bein’ ’long ago dead, de
debt descends to Mars’ Pendleton. Three hundred dollars. Uncle Mose is
plenty able to pay now. When dat railroad buy my lan’ I laid off to pay
fur dem mules. Count de money, Mars’ Pendleton. Dat’s what I sold dem
mules fur. Yassir.”

Tears were in Major Talbot’s eyes. He took Uncle Mose’s hand and laid
his other upon his shoulder.

“Dear, faithful, old servitor,” he said in an unsteady voice, “I don’t
mind saying to you that ‘Mars’ Pendleton’ spent his last dollar in the
world a week ago. We will accept this money, Uncle Mose, since, in a
way, it is a sort of payment, as well as a token of the loyalty and
devotion of the old regime. Lydia, my dear, take the money. You are
better fitted than I to manage its expenditure.”

“Take it, honey,” said Uncle Mose. “Hit belongs to you. Hit’s Talbot
money.”

After Uncle Mose had gone, Miss Lydia had a good cry—for joy; and the
major turned his face to a corner, and smoked his clay pipe
volcanically.

The succeeding days saw the Talbots restored to peace and ease. Miss
Lydia’s face lost its worried look. The major appeared in a new frock
coat, in which he looked like a wax figure personifying the memory of
his golden age. Another publisher who read the manuscript of the
“Anecdotes and Reminiscences” thought that, with a little retouching
and toning down of the high lights, he could make a really bright and
salable volume of it. Altogether, the situation was comfortable, and
not without the touch of hope that is often sweeter than arrived
blessings.

One day, about a week after their piece of good luck, a maid brought a
letter for Miss Lydia to her room. The postmark showed that it was from
New York. Not knowing any one there, Miss Lydia, in a mild flutter of
wonder, sat down by her table and opened the letter with her scissors.
This was what she read:

Dear Miss Talbot:

    I thought you might be glad to learn of my good fortune. I have
    received and accepted an offer of two hundred dollars per week by a
    New York stock company to play Colonel Calhoun in “A Magnolia
    Flower.”
    There is something else I wanted you to know. I guess you’d better
    not tell Major Talbot. I was anxious to make him some amends for
    the great help he was to me in studying the part, and for the bad
    humour he was in about it. He refused to let me, so I did it
    anyhow. I could easily spare the three hundred.


Sincerely yours,
    H. Hopkins Hargraves,


P.S. How did I play Uncle Mose?


Major Talbot, passing through the hall, saw Miss Lydia’s door open and
stopped.

“Any mail for us this morning, Lydia, dear?” he asked.

Miss Lydia slid the letter beneath a fold of her dress.

“The _Mobile Chronicle_ came,” she said promptly. “It’s on the table in
your study.”




XIV.
LET ME FEEL YOUR PULSE


So I went to a doctor.

“How long has it been since you took any alcohol into your system?” he
asked.

Turning my head sidewise, I answered, “Oh, quite awhile.”

He was a young doctor, somewhere between twenty and forty. He wore
heliotrope socks, but he looked like Napoleon. I liked him immensely.

“Now,” said he, “I am going to show you the effect of alcohol upon your
circulation.” I think it was “circulation” he said; though it may have
been “advertising.”

He bared my left arm to the elbow, brought out a bottle of whiskey, and
gave me a drink. He began to look more like Napoleon. I began to like
him better.

Then he put a tight compress on my upper arm, stopped my pulse with his
fingers, and squeezed a rubber bulb connected with an apparatus on a
stand that looked like a thermometer. The mercury jumped up and down
without seeming to stop anywhere; but the doctor said it registered two
hundred and thirty-seven or one hundred and sixty-five or some such
number.

“Now,” said he, “you see what alcohol does to the blood-pressure.”

“It’s marvellous,” said I, “but do you think it a sufficient test? Have
one on me, and let’s try the other arm.” But, no!

Then he grasped my hand. I thought I was doomed and he was saying
good-bye. But all he wanted to do was to jab a needle into the end of a
finger and compare the red drop with a lot of fifty-cent poker chips
that he had fastened to a card.

“It’s the hæmoglobin test,” he explained. “The colour of your blood is
wrong.”

“Well,” said I, “I know it should be blue; but this is a country of
mix-ups. Some of my ancestors were cavaliers; but they got thick with
some people on Nantucket Island, so—”

“I mean,” said the doctor, “that the shade of red is too light.”

“Oh,” said I, “it’s a case of matching instead of matches.”

The doctor then pounded me severely in the region of the chest. When he
did that I don’t know whether he reminded me most of Napoleon or
Battling or Lord Nelson. Then he looked grave and mentioned a string of
grievances that the flesh is heir to—mostly ending in “itis.” I
immediately paid him fifteen dollars on account.

“Is or are it or some or any of them necessarily fatal?” I asked. I
thought my connection with the matter justified my manifesting a
certain amount of interest.

“All of them,” he answered cheerfully. “But their progress may be
arrested. With care and proper continuous treatment you may live to be
eighty-five or ninety.”

I began to think of the doctor’s bill. “Eighty-five would be
sufficient, I am sure,” was my comment. I paid him ten dollars more on
account.

“The first thing to do,” he said, with renewed animation, “is to find a
sanitarium where you will get a complete rest for a while, and allow
your nerves to get into a better condition. I myself will go with you
and select a suitable one.”

So he took me to a mad-house in the Catskills. It was on a bare
mountain frequented only by infrequent frequenters. You could see
nothing but stones and boulders, some patches of snow, and scattered
pine trees. The young physician in charge was most agreeable. He gave
me a stimulant without applying a compress to the arm. It was luncheon
time, and we were invited to partake. There were about twenty inmates
at little tables in the dining room. The young physician in charge came
to our table and said: “It is a custom with our guests not to regard
themselves as patients, but merely as tired ladies and gentlemen taking
a rest. Whatever slight maladies they may have are never alluded to in
conversation.”

My doctor called loudly to a waitress to bring some phosphoglycerate of
lime hash, dog-bread, bromo-seltzer pancakes, and nux vomica tea for my
repast. Then a sound arose like a sudden wind storm among pine trees.
It was produced by every guest in the room whispering loudly,
“Neurasthenia!”—except one man with a nose, whom I distinctly heard
say, “Chronic alcoholism.” I hope to meet him again. The physician in
charge turned and walked away.

An hour or so after luncheon he conducted us to the workshop—say fifty
yards from the house. Thither the guests had been conducted by the
physician in charge’s understudy and sponge-holder—a man with feet and
a blue sweater. He was so tall that I was not sure he had a face; but
the Armour Packing Company would have been delighted with his hands.

“Here,” said the physician in charge, “our guests find relaxation from
past mental worries by devoting themselves to physical
labour—recreation, in reality.”

There were turning-lathes, carpenters’ outfits, clay-modelling tools,
spinning-wheels, weaving-frames, treadmills, bass drums,
enlarged-crayon-portrait apparatuses, blacksmith forges, and
everything, seemingly, that could interest the paying lunatic guests of
a first-rate sanitarium.

“The lady making mud pies in the corner,” whispered the physician in
charge, “is no other than—Lula Lulington, the authoress of the novel
entitled ‘Why Love Loves.’ What she is doing now is simply to rest her
mind after performing that piece of work.”

I had seen the book. “Why doesn’t she do it by writing another one
instead?” I asked.

As you see, I wasn’t as far gone as they thought I was.

“The gentleman pouring water through the funnel,” continued the
physician in charge, “is a Wall Street broker broken down from
overwork.”

I buttoned my coat.

Others he pointed out were architects playing with Noah’s arks,
ministers reading Darwin’s “Theory of Evolution,” lawyers sawing wood,
tired-out society ladies talking Ibsen to the blue-sweatered
sponge-holder, a neurotic millionaire lying asleep on the floor, and a
prominent artist drawing a little red wagon around the room.

“You look pretty strong,” said the physician in charge to me. “I think
the best mental relaxation for you would be throwing small boulders
over the mountainside and then bringing them up again.”

I was a hundred yards away before my doctor overtook me.

“What’s the matter?” he asked.

“The matter is,” said I, “that there are no aeroplanes handy. So I am
going to merrily and hastily jog the foot-pathway to yon station and
catch the first unlimited-soft-coal express back to town.”

“Well,” said the doctor, “perhaps you are right. This seems hardly the
suitable place for you. But what you need is rest—absolute rest and
exercise.”

That night I went to a hotel in the city, and said to the clerk: “What
I need is absolute rest and exercise. Can you give me a room with one
of those tall folding beds in it, and a relay of bellboys to work it up
and down while I rest?”

The clerk rubbed a speck off one of his finger nails and glanced
sidewise at a tall man in a white hat sitting in the lobby. That man
came over and asked me politely if I had seen the shrubbery at the west
entrance. I had not, so he showed it to me and then looked me over.

“I thought you had ’em,” he said, not unkindly, “but I guess you’re all
right. You’d better go see a doctor, old man.”

A week afterward my doctor tested my blood pressure again without the
preliminary stimulant. He looked to me a little less like Napoleon. And
his socks were of a shade of tan that did not appeal to me.

“What you need,” he decided, “is sea air and companionship.”

“Would a mermaid—” I began; but he slipped on his professional manner.

“I myself,” he said, “will take you to the Hotel Bonair off the coast
of Long Island and see that you get in good shape. It is a quiet,
comfortable resort where you will soon recuperate.”

The Hotel Bonair proved to be a nine-hundred-room fashionable hostelry
on an island off the main shore. Everybody who did not dress for dinner
was shoved into a side dining-room and given only a terrapin and
champagne table d’hôte. The bay was a great stamping ground for wealthy
yachtsmen. The _Corsair_ anchored there the day we arrived. I saw Mr.
Morgan standing on deck eating a cheese sandwich and gazing longingly
at the hotel. Still, it was a very inexpensive place. Nobody could
afford to pay their prices. When you went away you simply left your
baggage, stole a skiff, and beat it for the mainland in the night.

When I had been there one day I got a pad of monogrammed telegraph
blanks at the clerk’s desk and began to wire to all my friends for
get-away money. My doctor and I played one game of croquet on the golf
links and went to sleep on the lawn.

When we got back to town a thought seemed to occur to him suddenly. “By
the way,” he asked, “how do you feel?”

“Relieved of very much,” I replied.

Now a consulting physician is different. He isn’t exactly sure whether
he is to be paid or not, and this uncertainty insures you either the
most careful or the most careless attention. My doctor took me to see a
consulting physician. He made a poor guess and gave me careful
attention. I liked him immensely. He put me through some coördination
exercises.

“Have you a pain in the back of your head?” he asked. I told him I had
not.

“Shut your eyes,” he ordered, “put your feet close together, and jump
backward as far as you can.”

I always was a good backward jumper with my eyes shut, so I obeyed. My
head struck the edge of the bathroom door, which had been left open and
was only three feet away. The doctor was very sorry. He had overlooked
the fact that the door was open. He closed it.

“Now touch your nose with your right forefinger,” he said.

“Where is it?” I asked.

“On your face,” said he.

“I mean my right forefinger,” I explained.

“Oh, excuse me,” said he. He reopened the bathroom door, and I took my
finger out of the crack of it. After I had performed the marvellous
digito-nasal feat I said:

“I do not wish to deceive you as to symptoms, Doctor; I really have
something like a pain in the back of my head.” He ignored the symptom
and examined my heart carefully with a
latest-popular-air-penny-in-the-slot ear-trumpet. I felt like a ballad.

“Now,” he said, “gallop like a horse for about five minutes around the
room.”

I gave the best imitation I could of a disqualified Percheron being led
out of Madison Square Garden. Then, without dropping in a penny, he
listened to my chest again.

“No glanders in our family, Doc,” I said.

The consulting physician held up his forefinger within three inches of
my nose. “Look at my finger,” he commanded.

“Did you ever try Pears’—” I began; but he went on with his test
rapidly.

“Now look across the bay. At my finger. Across the bay. At my finger.
At my finger. Across the bay. Across the bay. At my finger. Across the
bay.” This for about three minutes.

He explained that this was a test of the action of the brain. It seemed
easy to me. I never once mistook his finger for the bay. I’ll bet that
if he had used the phrases: “Gaze, as it were, unpreoccupied,
outward—or rather laterally—in the direction of the horizon, underlaid,
so to speak, with the adjacent fluid inlet,” and “Now, returning—or
rather, in a manner, withdrawing your attention, bestow it upon my
upraised digit”—I’ll bet, I say, that Henry James himself could have
passed the examination.

After asking me if I had ever had a grand uncle with curvature of the
spine or a cousin with swelled ankles, the two doctors retired to the
bathroom and sat on the edge of the bath tub for their consultation. I
ate an apple, and gazed first at my finger and then across the bay.

The doctors came out looking grave. More: they looked tombstones and
Tennessee-papers-please-copy. They wrote out a diet list to which I was
to be restricted. It had everything that I had ever heard of to eat on
it, except snails. And I never eat a snail unless it overtakes me and
bites me first.

“You must follow this diet strictly,” said the doctors.

“I’d follow it a mile if I could get one-tenth of what’s on it,” I
answered.

“Of next importance,” they went on, “is outdoor air and exercise. And
here is a prescription that will be of great benefit to you.”

Then all of us took something. They took their hats, and I took my
departure.

I went to a druggist and showed him the prescription.

“It will be $2.87 for an ounce bottle,” he said.

“Will you give me a piece of your wrapping cord?” said I.

I made a hole in the prescription, ran the cord through it, tied it
around my neck, and tucked it inside. All of us have a little
superstition, and mine runs to a confidence in amulets.

Of course there was nothing the matter with me, but I was very ill. I
couldn’t work, sleep, eat, or bowl. The only way I could get any
sympathy was to go without shaving for four days. Even then somebody
would say: “Old man, you look as hardy as a pine knot. Been up for a
jaunt in the Maine woods, eh?”

Then, suddenly, I remembered that I must have outdoor air and exercise.
So I went down South to John’s. John is an approximate relative by
verdict of a preacher standing with a little book in his hands in a
bower of chrysanthemums while a hundred thousand people looked on. John
has a country house seven miles from Pineville. It is at an altitude
and on the Blue Ridge Mountains in a state too dignified to be dragged
into this controversy. John is mica, which is more valuable and clearer
than gold.

He met me at Pineville, and we took the trolley car to his home. It is
a big, neighbourless cottage on a hill surrounded by a hundred
mountains. We got off at his little private station, where John’s
family and Amaryllis met and greeted us. Amaryllis looked at me a
trifle anxiously.

A rabbit came bounding across the hill between us and the house. I
threw down my suit-case and pursued it hotfoot. After I had run twenty
yards and seen it disappear, I sat down on the grass and wept
disconsolately.

“I can’t catch a rabbit any more,” I sobbed. “I’m of no further use in
the world. I may as well be dead.”

“Oh, what is it—what is it, Brother John?” I heard Amaryllis say.

“Nerves a little unstrung,” said John, in his calm way. “Don’t worry.
Get up, you rabbit-chaser, and come on to the house before the biscuits
get cold.” It was about twilight, and the mountains came up nobly to
Miss Murfree’s descriptions of them.

Soon after dinner I announced that I believed I could sleep for a year
or two, including legal holidays. So I was shown to a room as big and
cool as a flower garden, where there was a bed as broad as a lawn. Soon
afterward the remainder of the household retired, and then there fell
upon the land a silence.

I had not heard a silence before in years. It was absolute. I raised
myself on my elbow and listened to it. Sleep! I thought that if I only
could hear a star twinkle or a blade of grass sharpen itself I could
compose myself to rest. I thought once that I heard a sound like the
sail of a catboat flapping as it veered about in a breeze, but I
decided that it was probably only a tack in the carpet. Still I
listened.

Suddenly some belated little bird alighted upon the window-sill, and,
in what he no doubt considered sleepy tones, enunciated the noise
generally translated as “cheep!”

I leaped into the air.

“Hey! what’s the matter down there?” called John from his room above
mine.

“Oh, nothing,” I answered, “except that I accidentally bumped my head
against the ceiling.”

The next morning I went out on the porch and looked at the mountains.
There were forty-seven of them in sight. I shuddered, went into the big
hall sitting room of the house, selected “Pancoast’s Family Practice of
Medicine” from a bookcase, and began to read. John came in, took the
book away from me, and led me outside. He has a farm of three hundred
acres furnished with the usual complement of barns, mules, peasantry,
and harrows with three front teeth broken off. I had seen such things
in my childhood, and my heart began to sink.

Then John spoke of alfalfa, and I brightened at once. “Oh, yes,” said
I, “wasn’t she in the chorus of—let’s see—”

“Green, you know,” said John, “and tender, and you plow it under after
the first season.”

“I know,” said I, “and the grass grows over her.”

“Right,” said John. “You know something about farming, after all.”

“I know something of some farmers,” said I, “and a sure scythe will mow
them down some day.”

On the way back to the house a beautiful and inexplicable creature
walked across our path. I stopped irresistibly fascinated, gazing at
it. John waited patiently, smoking his cigarette. He is a modern
farmer. After ten minutes he said: “Are you going to stand there
looking at that chicken all day? Breakfast is nearly ready.”

“A chicken?” said I.

“A White Orpington hen, if you want to particularize.”

“A White Orpington hen?” I repeated, with intense interest. The fowl
walked slowly away with graceful dignity, and I followed like a child
after the Pied Piper. Five minutes more were allowed me by John, and
then he took me by the sleeve and conducted me to breakfast.

After I had been there a week I began to grow alarmed. I was sleeping
and eating well and actually beginning to enjoy life. For a man in my
desperate condition that would never do. So I sneaked down to the
trolley-car station, took the car for Pineville, and went to see one of
the best physicians in town. By this time I knew exactly what to do
when I needed medical treatment. I hung my hat on the back of a chair,
and said rapidly:

“Doctor, I have cirrhosis of the heart, indurated arteries,
neurasthenia, neuritis, acute indigestion, and convalescence. I am
going to live on a strict diet. I shall also take a tepid bath at night
and a cold one in the morning. I shall endeavour to be cheerful, and
fix my mind on pleasant subjects. In the way of drugs I intend to take
a phosphorous pill three times a day, preferably after meals, and a
tonic composed of the tinctures of gentian, cinchona, calisaya, and
cardamon compound. Into each teaspoonful of this I shall mix tincture
of nux vomica, beginning with one drop and increasing it a drop each
day until the maximum dose is reached. I shall drop this with a
medicine-dropper, which can be procured at a trifling cost at any
pharmacy. Good morning.”

I took my hat and walked out. After I had closed the door I remembered
something that I had forgotten to say. I opened it again. The doctor
had not moved from where he had been sitting, but he gave a slightly
nervous start when he saw me again.

“I forgot to mention,” said I, “that I shall also take absolute rest
and exercise.”

After this consultation I felt much better. The reëstablishing in my
mind of the fact that I was hopelessly ill gave me so much satisfaction
that I almost became gloomy again. There is nothing more alarming to a
neurasthenic than to feel himself growing well and cheerful.

John looked after me carefully. After I had evinced so much interest in
his White Orpington chicken he tried his best to divert my mind, and
was particular to lock his hen house of nights. Gradually the tonic
mountain air, the wholesome food, and the daily walks among the hills
so alleviated my malady that I became utterly wretched and despondent.
I heard of a country doctor who lived in the mountains nearby. I went
to see him and told him the whole story. He was a gray-bearded man with
clear, blue, wrinkled eyes, in a home-made suit of gray jeans.

In order to save time I diagnosed my case, touched my nose with my
right forefinger, struck myself below the knee to make my foot kick,
sounded my chest, stuck out my tongue, and asked him the price of
cemetery lots in Pineville.

He lit his pipe and looked at me for about three minutes. “Brother,” he
said, after a while, “you are in a mighty bad way. There’s a chance for
you to pull through, but it’s a mighty slim one.”

“What can it be?” I asked eagerly. “I have taken arsenic and gold,
phosphorus, exercise, nux vomica, hydrotherapeutic baths, rest,
excitement, codein, and aromatic spirits of ammonia. Is there anything
left in the pharmacopœia?”

“Somewhere in these mountains,” said the doctor, “there’s a plant
growing—a flowering plant that’ll cure you, and it’s about the only
thing that will. It’s of a kind that’s as old as the world; but of late
it’s powerful scarce and hard to find. You and I will have to hunt it
up. I’m not engaged in active practice now: I’m getting along in years;
but I’ll take your case. You’ll have to come every day in the afternoon
and help me hunt for this plant till we find it. The city doctors may
know a lot about new scientific things, but they don’t know much about
the cures that nature carries around in her saddlebags.”

So every day the old doctor and I hunted the cure-all plant among the
mountains and valleys of the Blue Ridge. Together we toiled up steep
heights so slippery with fallen autumn leaves that we had to catch
every sapling and branch within our reach to save us from falling. We
waded through gorges and chasms, breast-deep with laurel and ferns; we
followed the banks of mountain streams for miles; we wound our way like
Indians through brakes of pine—road side, hill side, river side,
mountain side we explored in our search for the miraculous plant.

As the old doctor said, it must have grown scarce and hard to find. But
we followed our quest. Day by day we plumbed the valleys, scaled the
heights, and tramped the plateaus in search of the miraculous plant.
Mountain-bred, he never seemed to tire. I often reached home too
fatigued to do anything except fall into bed and sleep until morning.
This we kept up for a month.

One evening after I had returned from a six-mile tramp with the old
doctor, Amaryllis and I took a little walk under the trees near the
road. We looked at the mountains drawing their royal-purple robes
around them for their night’s repose.

“I’m glad you’re well again,” she said. “When you first came you
frightened me. I thought you were really ill.”

“Well again!” I almost shrieked. “Do you know that I have only one
chance in a thousand to live?”

Amaryllis looked at me in surprise. “Why,” said she, “you are as strong
as one of the plough-mules, you sleep ten or twelve hours every night,
and you are eating us out of house and home. What more do you want?”

“I tell you,” said I, “that unless we find the magic—that is, the plant
we are looking for—in time, nothing can save me. The doctor tells me
so.”

“What doctor?”

“Doctor Tatum—the old doctor who lives halfway up Black Oak Mountain.
Do you know him?”

“I have known him since I was able to talk. And is that where you go
every day—is it he who takes you on these long walks and climbs that
have brought back your health and strength? God bless the old doctor.”

Just then the old doctor himself drove slowly down the road in his
rickety old buggy. I waved my hand at him and shouted that I would be
on hand the next day at the usual time. He stopped his horse and called
to Amaryllis to come out to him. They talked for five minutes while I
waited. Then the old doctor drove on.

When we got to the house Amaryllis lugged out an encyclopædia and
sought a word in it. “The doctor said,” she told me, “that you needn’t
call any more as a patient, but he’d be glad to see you any time as a
friend. And then he told me to look up my name in the encyclopædia and
tell you what it means. It seems to be the name of a genus of flowering
plants, and also the name of a country girl in Theocritus and Virgil.
What do you suppose the doctor meant by that?”

“I know what he meant,” said I. “I know now.”

A word to a brother who may have come under the spell of the unquiet
Lady Neurasthenia.

The formula was true. Even though gropingly at times, the physicians of
the walled cities had put their fingers upon the specific medicament.

And so for the exercise one is referred to good Doctor Tatum on Black
Oak Mountain—take the road to your right at the Methodist meeting house
in the pine-grove.

Absolute rest and exercise!

What rest more remedial than to sit with Amaryllis in the shade, and,
with a sixth sense, read the wordless Theocritan idyl of the
gold-bannered blue mountains marching orderly into the dormitories of
the night?




XV.
OCTOBER AND JUNE


The Captain gazed gloomily at his sword that hung upon the wall. In the
closet near by was stored his faded uniform, stained and worn by
weather and service. What a long, long time it seemed since those old
days of war’s alarms!

And now, veteran that he was of his country’s strenuous times, he had
been reduced to abject surrender by a woman’s soft eyes and smiling
lips. As he sat in his quiet room he held in his hand the letter he had
just received from her—the letter that had caused him to wear that look
of gloom. He re-read the fatal paragraph that had destroyed his hope.

In declining the honour you have done me in asking me to be your wife,
I feel that I ought to speak frankly. The reason I have for so doing is
the great difference between our ages. I like you very, very much, but
I am sure that our marriage would not be a happy one. I am sorry to
have to refer to this, but I believe that you will appreciate my
honesty in giving you the true reason.


The Captain sighed, and leaned his head upon his hand. Yes, there were
many years between their ages. But he was strong and rugged, he had
position and wealth. Would not his love, his tender care, and the
advantages he could bestow upon her make her forget the question of
age? Besides, he was almost sure that she cared for him.

The Captain was a man of prompt action. In the field he had been
distinguished for his decisiveness and energy. He would see her and
plead his cause again in person. Age!—what was it to come between him
and the one he loved?

In two hours he stood ready, in light marching order, for his greatest
battle. He took the train for the old Southern town in Tennessee where
she lived.

Theodora Deming was on the steps of the handsome, porticoed old
mansion, enjoying the summer twilight, when the Captain entered the
gate and came up the gravelled walk. She met him with a smile that was
free from embarrassment. As the Captain stood on the step below her,
the difference in their ages did not appear so great. He was tall and
straight and clear-eyed and browned. She was in the bloom of lovely
womanhood.

“I wasn’t expecting you,” said Theodora; “but now that you’ve come you
may sit on the step. Didn’t you get my letter?”

“I did,” said the Captain; “and that’s why I came. I say, now, Theo,
reconsider your answer, won’t you?”

Theodora smiled softly upon him. He carried his years well. She was
really fond of his strength, his wholesome looks, his
manliness—perhaps, if—

“No, no,” she said, shaking her head, positively; “it’s out of the
question. I like you a whole lot, but marrying won’t do. My age and
yours are—but don’t make me say it again—I told you in my letter.”

The Captain flushed a little through the bronze on his face. He was
silent for a while, gazing sadly into the twilight. Beyond a line of
woods that he could see was a field where the boys in blue had once
bivouacked on their march toward the sea. How long ago it seemed now!
Truly, Fate and Father Time had tricked him sorely. Just a few years
interposed between himself and happiness!

Theodora’s hand crept down and rested in the clasp of his firm, brown
one. She felt, at least, that sentiment that is akin to love.

“Don’t take it so hard, please,” she said, gently. “It’s all for the
best. I’ve reasoned it out very wisely all by myself. Some day you’ll
be glad I didn’t marry you. It would be very nice and lovely for a
while—but, just think! In only a few short years what different tastes
we would have! One of us would want to sit by the fireside and read,
and maybe nurse neuralgia or rheumatism of evenings, while the other
would be crazy for balls and theatres and late suppers. No, my dear
friend. While it isn’t exactly January and May, it’s a clear case of
October and pretty early in June.”

“I’d always do what you wanted me to do, Theo. If you wanted to—”

“No, you wouldn’t. You think now that you would, but you wouldn’t.
Please don’t ask me any more.”

The Captain had lost his battle. But he was a gallant warrior, and when
he rose to make his final adieu his mouth was grimly set and his
shoulders were squared.

He took the train for the North that night. On the next evening he was
back in his room, where his sword was hanging against the wall. He was
dressing for dinner, tying his white tie into a very careful bow. And
at the same time he was indulging in a pensive soliloquy.

“’Pon my honour, I believe Theo was right, after all. Nobody can deny
that she’s a peach, but she must be twenty-eight, at the very kindest
calculation.”

For you see, the Captain was only nineteen, and his sword had never
been drawn except on the parade ground at Chattanooga, which was as
near as he ever got to the Spanish-American War.




XVI.
THE CHURCH WITH AN OVERSHOT-WHEEL


Lakelands is not to be found in the catalogues of fashionable summer
resorts. It lies on a low spur of the Cumberland range of mountains on
a little tributary of the Clinch River. Lakelands proper is a contented
village of two dozen houses situated on a forlorn, narrow-gauge
railroad line. You wonder whether the railroad lost itself in the pine
woods and ran into Lakelands from fright and loneliness, or whether
Lakelands got lost and huddled itself along the railroad to wait for
the cars to carry it home.

You wonder again why it was named Lakelands. There are no lakes, and
the lands about are too poor to be worth mentioning.

Half a mile from the village stands the Eagle House, a big, roomy old
mansion run by Josiah Rankin for the accommodation of visitors who
desire the mountain air at inexpensive rates. The Eagle House is
delightfully mismanaged. It is full of ancient instead of modern
improvements, and it is altogether as comfortably neglected and
pleasingly disarranged as your own home. But you are furnished with
clean rooms and good and abundant fare: yourself and the piny woods
must do the rest. Nature has provided a mineral spring, grape-vine
swings, and croquet—even the wickets are wooden. You have Art to thank
only for the fiddle-and-guitar music twice a week at the hop in the
rustic pavilion.

The patrons of the Eagle House are those who seek recreation as a
necessity, as well as a pleasure. They are busy people, who may be
likened to clocks that need a fortnight’s winding to insure a year’s
running of their wheels. You will find students there from the lower
towns, now and then an artist, or a geologist absorbed in construing
the ancient strata of the hills. A few quiet families spend the summers
there; and often one or two tired members of that patient sisterhood
known to Lakelands as “schoolmarms.”

A quarter of a mile from the Eagle House was what would have been
described to its guests as “an object of interest” in the catalogue,
had the Eagle House issued a catalogue. This was an old, old mill that
was no longer a mill. In the words of Josiah Rankin, it was “the only
church in the United States, sah, with an overshot-wheel; and the only
mill in the world, sah, with pews and a pipe organ.” The guests of the
Eagle House attended the old mill church each Sabbath, and heard the
preacher liken the purified Christian to bolted flour ground to
usefulness between the millstones of experience and suffering.

Every year about the beginning of autumn there came to the Eagle House
one Abram Strong, who remained for a time an honoured and beloved
guest. In Lakelands he was called “Father Abram,” because his hair was
so white, his face so strong and kind and florid, his laugh so merry,
and his black clothes and broad hat so priestly in appearance. Even new
guests after three or four days’ acquaintance gave him this familiar
title.

Father Abram came a long way to Lakelands. He lived in a big, roaring
town in the Northwest where he owned mills, not little mills with pews
and an organ in them, but great, ugly, mountain-like mills that the
freight trains crawled around all day like ants around an ant-heap. And
now you must be told about Father Abram and the mill that was a church,
for their stories run together.

In the days when the church was a mill, Mr. Strong was the miller.
There was no jollier, dustier, busier, happier miller in all the land
than he. He lived in a little cottage across the road from the mill.
His hand was heavy, but his toll was light, and the mountaineers
brought their grain to him across many weary miles of rocky roads.

The delight of the miller’s life was his little daughter, Aglaia. That
was a brave name, truly, for a flaxen-haired toddler; but the
mountaineers love sonorous and stately names. The mother had
encountered it somewhere in a book, and the deed was done. In her
babyhood Aglaia herself repudiated the name, as far as common use went,
and persisted in calling herself “Dums.” The miller and his wife often
tried to coax from Aglaia the source of this mysterious name, but
without results. At last they arrived at a theory. In the little garden
behind the cottage was a bed of rhododendrons in which the child took a
peculiar delight and interest. It may have been that she perceived in
“Dums” a kinship to the formidable name of her favourite flowers.

When Aglaia was four years old she and her father used to go through a
little performance in the mill every afternoon, that never failed to
come off, the weather permitting. When supper was ready her mother
would brush her hair and put on a clean apron and send her across to
the mill to bring her father home. When the miller saw her coming in
the mill door he would come forward, all white with the flour dust, and
wave his hand and sing an old miller’s song that was familiar in those
parts and ran something like this:

“The wheel goes round,
The grist is ground,
    The dusty miller’s merry.
He sings all day,
His work is play,
    While thinking of his dearie.”


Then Aglaia would run to him laughing, and call:

“Da-da, come take Dums home;” and the miller would swing her to his
shoulder and march over to supper, singing the miller’s song. Every
evening this would take place.

One day, only a week after her fourth birthday, Aglaia disappeared.
When last seen she was plucking wild flowers by the side of the road in
front of the cottage. A little while later her mother went out to see
that she did not stray too far away, and she was already gone.

Of course every effort was made to find her. The neighbours gathered
and searched the woods and the mountains for miles around. They dragged
every foot of the mill race and the creek for a long distance below the
dam. Never a trace of her did they find. A night or two before there
had been a family of wanderers camped in a grove near by. It was
conjectured that they might have stolen the child; but when their wagon
was overtaken and searched she could not be found.

The miller remained at the mill for nearly two years; and then his hope
of finding her died out. He and his wife moved to the Northwest. In a
few years he was the owner of a modern mill in one of the important
milling cities in that region. Mrs. Strong never recovered from the
shock caused by the loss of Aglaia, and two years after they moved away
the miller was left to bear his sorrow alone.

When Abram Strong became prosperous he paid a visit to Lakelands and
the old mill. The scene was a sad one for him, but he was a strong man,
and always appeared cheery and kindly. It was then that he was inspired
to convert the old mill into a church. Lakelands was too poor to build
one; and the still poorer mountaineers could not assist. There was no
place of worship nearer than twenty miles.

The miller altered the appearance of the mill as little as possible.
The big overshot-wheel was left in its place. The young people who came
to the church used to cut their initials in its soft and slowly
decaying wood. The dam was partly destroyed, and the clear mountain
stream rippled unchecked down its rocky bed. Inside the mill the
changes were greater. The shafts and millstones and belts and pulleys
were, of course, all removed. There were two rows of benches with
aisles between, and a little raised platform and pulpit at one end. On
three sides overhead was a gallery containing seats, and reached by a
stairway inside. There was also an organ—a real pipe organ—in the
gallery, that was the pride of the congregation of the Old Mill Church.
Miss Phœbe Summers was the organist. The Lakelands boys proudly took
turns at pumping it for her at each Sunday’s service. The Rev. Mr.
Banbridge was the preacher, and rode down from Squirrel Gap on his old
white horse without ever missing a service. And Abram Strong paid for
everything. He paid the preacher five hundred dollars a year; and Miss
Phœbe two hundred dollars.

Thus, in memory of Aglaia, the old mill was converted into a blessing
for the community in which she had once lived. It seemed that the brief
life of the child had brought about more good than the three score
years and ten of many. But Abram Strong set up yet another monument to
her memory.

Out from his mills in the Northwest came the “Aglaia” flour, made from
the hardest and finest wheat that could be raised. The country soon
found out that the “Aglaia” flour had two prices. One was the highest
market price, and the other was—nothing.

Wherever there happened a calamity that left people destitute—a fire, a
flood, a tornado, a strike, or a famine, there would go hurrying a
generous consignment of the “Aglaia” at its “nothing” price. It was
given away cautiously and judiciously, but it was freely given, and not
a penny could the hungry ones pay for it. There got to be a saying that
whenever there was a disastrous fire in the poor districts of a city
the fire chief’s buggy reached the scene first, next the “Aglaia” flour
wagon, and then the fire engines.

So this was Abram Strong’s other monument to Aglaia. Perhaps to a poet
the theme may seem too utilitarian for beauty; but to some the fancy
will seem sweet and fine that the pure, white, virgin flour, flying on
its mission of love and charity, might be likened to the spirit of the
lost child whose memory it signalized.

There came a year that brought hard times to the Cumberlands. Grain
crops everywhere were light, and there were no local crops at all.
Mountain floods had done much damage to property. Even game in the
woods was so scarce that the hunters brought hardly enough home to keep
their folk alive. Especially about Lakelands was the rigour felt.

As soon as Abram Strong heard of this his messages flew; and the little
narrow-gauge cars began to unload “Aglaia” flour there. The miller’s
orders were to store the flour in the gallery of the Old Mill Church;
and that every one who attended the church was to carry home a sack of
it.

Two weeks after that Abram Strong came for his yearly visit to the
Eagle House, and became “Father Abram” again.

That season the Eagle House had fewer guests than usual. Among them was
Rose Chester. Miss Chester came to Lakelands from Atlanta, where she
worked in a department store. This was the first vacation outing of her
life. The wife of the store manager had once spent a summer at the
Eagle House. She had taken a fancy to Rose, and had persuaded her to go
there for her three weeks’ holiday. The manager’s wife gave her a
letter to Mrs. Rankin, who gladly received her in her own charge and
care.

Miss Chester was not very strong. She was about twenty, and pale and
delicate from an indoor life. But one week of Lakelands gave her a
brightness and spirit that changed her wonderfully. The time was early
September when the Cumberlands are at their greatest beauty. The
mountain foliage was growing brilliant with autumnal colours; one
breathed aerial champagne, the nights were deliciously cool, causing
one to snuggle cosily under the warm blankets of the Eagle House.

Father Abram and Miss Chester became great friends. The old miller
learned her story from Mrs. Rankin, and his interest went out quickly
to the slender lonely girl who was making her own way in the world.

The mountain country was new to Miss Chester. She had lived many years
in the warm, flat town of Atlanta; and the grandeur and variety of the
Cumberlands delighted her. She was determined to enjoy every moment of
her stay. Her little hoard of savings had been estimated so carefully
in connection with her expenses that she knew almost to a penny what
her very small surplus would be when she returned to work.

Miss Chester was fortunate in gaining Father Abram for a friend and
companion. He knew every road and peak and slope of the mountains near
Lakelands. Through him she became acquainted with the solemn delight of
the shadowy, tilted aisles of the pine forests, the dignity of the bare
crags, the crystal, tonic mornings, the dreamy, golden afternoons full
of mysterious sadness. So her health improved, and her spirits grew
light. She had a laugh as genial and hearty in its feminine way as the
famous laugh of Father Abram. Both of them were natural optimists; and
both knew how to present a serene and cheerful face to the world.

One day Miss Chester learned from one of the guests the history of
Father Abram’s lost child. Quickly she hurried away and found the
miller seated on his favourite rustic bench near the chalybeate spring.
He was surprised when his little friend slipped her hand into his, and
looked at him with tears in her eyes.

“Oh, Father Abram,” she said, “I’m so sorry! I didn’t know until to-day
about your little daughter. You will find her yet some day—Oh, I hope
you will.”

The miller looked down at her with his strong, ready smile.

“Thank you, Miss Rose,” he said, in his usual cheery tones. “But I do
not expect to find Aglaia. For a few years I hoped that she had been
stolen by vagrants, and that she still lived; but I have lost that
hope. I believe that she was drowned.”

“I can understand,” said Miss Chester, “how the doubt must have made it
so hard to bear. And yet you are so cheerful and so ready to make other
people’s burdens light. Good Father Abram!”

“Good Miss Rose!” mimicked the miller, smiling. “Who thinks of others
more than you do?”

A whimsical mood seemed to strike Miss Chester.

“Oh, Father Abram,” she cried, “wouldn’t it be grand if I should prove
to be your daughter? Wouldn’t it be romantic? And wouldn’t you like to
have me for a daughter?”

“Indeed, I would,” said the miller, heartily. “If Aglaia had lived I
could wish for nothing better than for her to have grown up to be just
such a little woman as you are. Maybe you are Aglaia,” he continued,
falling in with her playful mood; “can’t you remember when we lived at
the mill?”

Miss Chester fell swiftly into serious meditation. Her large eyes were
fixed vaguely upon something in the distance. Father Abram was amused
at her quick return to seriousness. She sat thus for a long time before
she spoke.

“No,” she said at length, with a long sigh, “I can’t remember anything
at all about a mill. I don’t think that I ever saw a flour mill in my
life until I saw your funny little church. And if I were your little
girl I would remember it, wouldn’t I? I’m so sorry, Father Abram.”

“So am I,” said Father Abram, humouring her. “But if you cannot
remember that you are my little girl, Miss Rose, surely you can
recollect being some one else’s. You remember your own parents, of
course.”

“Oh, yes; I remember them very well—especially my father. He wasn’t a
bit like you, Father Abram. Oh, I was only making believe: Come, now,
you’ve rested long enough. You promised to show me the pool where you
can see the trout playing, this afternoon. I never saw a trout.”

Late one afternoon Father Abram set out for the old mill alone. He
often went to sit and think of the old days when he lived in the
cottage across the road. Time had smoothed away the sharpness of his
grief until he no longer found the memory of those times painful. But
whenever Abram Strong sat in the melancholy September afternoons on the
spot where “Dums” used to run in every day with her yellow curls
flying, the smile that Lakelands always saw upon his face was not
there.

The miller made his way slowly up the winding, steep road. The trees
crowded so close to the edge of it that he walked in their shade, with
his hat in his hand. Squirrels ran playfully upon the old rail fence at
his right. Quails were calling to their young broods in the wheat
stubble. The low sun sent a torrent of pale gold up the ravine that
opened to the west. Early September!—it was within a few days only of
the anniversary of Aglaia’s disappearance.

The old overshot-wheel, half covered with mountain ivy, caught patches
of the warm sunlight filtering through the trees. The cottage across
the road was still standing, but it would doubtless go down before the
next winter’s mountain blasts. It was overrun with morning glory and
wild gourd vines, and the door hung by one hinge.

Father Abram pushed open the mill door, and entered softly. And then he
stood still, wondering. He heard the sound of some one within, weeping
inconsolably. He looked, and saw Miss Chester sitting in a dim pew,
with her head bowed upon an open letter that her hands held.

Father Abram went to her, and laid one of his strong hands firmly upon
hers. She looked up, breathed his name, and tried to speak further.

“Not yet, Miss Rose,” said the miller, kindly. “Don’t try to talk yet.
There’s nothing as good for you as a nice, quiet little cry when you
are feeling blue.”

It seemed that the old miller, who had known so much sorrow himself,
was a magician in driving it away from others. Miss Chester’s sobs grew
easier. Presently she took her little plain-bordered handkerchief and
wiped away a drop or two that had fallen from her eyes upon Father
Abram’s big hand. Then she looked up and smiled through her tears. Miss
Chester could always smile before her tears had dried, just as Father
Abram could smile through his own grief. In that way the two were very
much alike.

The miller asked her no questions; but by and by Miss Chester began to
tell him.

It was the old story that always seems so big and important to the
young, and that brings reminiscent smiles to their elders. Love was the
theme, as may be supposed. There was a young man in Atlanta, full of
all goodness and the graces, who had discovered that Miss Chester also
possessed these qualities above all other people in Atlanta or anywhere
else from Greenland to Patagonia. She showed Father Abram the letter
over which she had been weeping. It was a manly, tender letter, a
little superlative and urgent, after the style of love letters written
by young men full of goodness and the graces. He proposed for Miss
Chester’s hand in marriage at once. Life, he said, since her departure
for a three-weeks’ visit, was not to be endured. He begged for an
immediate answer; and if it were favourable he promised to fly,
ignoring the narrow-gauge railroad, at once to Lakelands.

“And now where does the trouble come in?” asked the miller when he had
read the letter.

“I cannot marry him,” said Miss Chester.

“Do you want to marry him?” asked Father Abram.

“Oh, I love him,” she answered, “but—” Down went her head and she
sobbed again.

“Come, Miss Rose,” said the miller; “you can give me your confidence. I
do not question you, but I think you can trust me.”

“I do trust you,” said the girl. “I will tell you why I must refuse
Ralph. I am nobody; I haven’t even a name; the name I call myself is a
lie. Ralph is a noble man. I love him with all my heart, but I can
never be his.”

“What talk is this?” said Father Abram. “You said that you remember
your parents. Why do you say you have no name? I do not understand.”

“I do remember them,” said Miss Chester. “I remember them too well. My
first recollections are of our life somewhere in the far South. We
moved many times to different towns and states. I have picked cotton,
and worked in factories, and have often gone without enough food and
clothes. My mother was sometimes good to me; my father was always
cruel, and beat me. I think they were both idle and unsettled.

“One night when we were living in a little town on a river near Atlanta
they had a great quarrel. It was while they were abusing and taunting
each other that I learned—oh, Father Abram, I learned that I didn’t
even have the right to be—don’t you understand? I had no right even to
a name; I was nobody.

“I ran away that night. I walked to Atlanta and found work. I gave
myself the name of Rose Chester, and have earned my own living ever
since. Now you know why I cannot marry Ralph—and, oh, I can never tell
him why.”

Better than any sympathy, more helpful than pity, was Father Abram’s
depreciation of her woes.

“Why, dear, dear! is that all?” he said. “Fie, fie! I thought something
was in the way. If this perfect young man is a man at all he will not
care a pinch of bran for your family tree. Dear Miss Rose, take my word
for it, it is yourself he cares for. Tell him frankly, just as you have
told me, and I’ll warrant that he will laugh at your story, and think
all the more of you for it.”

“I shall never tell him,” said Miss Chester, sadly. “And I shall never
marry him nor any one else. I have not the right.”

But they saw a long shadow come bobbing up the sunlit road. And then
came a shorter one bobbing by its side; and presently two strange
figures approached the church. The long shadow was made by Miss Phœbe
Summers, the organist, come to practise. Tommy Teague, aged twelve, was
responsible for the shorter shadow. It was Tommy’s day to pump the
organ for Miss Phœbe, and his bare toes proudly spurned the dust of the
road.

Miss Phœbe, in her lilac-spray chintz dress, with her accurate little
curls hanging over each ear, courtesied low to Father Abram, and shook
her curls ceremoniously at Miss Chester. Then she and her assistant
climbed the steep stairway to the organ loft.

In the gathering shadows below, Father Abram and Miss Chester lingered.
They were silent; and it is likely that they were busy with their
memories. Miss Chester sat, leaning her head on her hand, with her eyes
fixed far away. Father Abram stood in the next pew, looking
thoughtfully out of the door at the road and the ruined cottage.

Suddenly the scene was transformed for him back almost a score of years
into the past. For, as Tommy pumped away, Miss Phœbe struck a low bass
note on the organ and held it to test the volume of air that it
contained. The church ceased to exist, so far as Father Abram was
concerned. The deep, booming vibration that shook the little frame
building was no note from an organ, but the humming of the mill
machinery. He felt sure that the old overshot-wheel was turning; that
he was back again, a dusty, merry miller in the old mountain mill. And
now evening was come, and soon would come Aglaia with flying colours,
toddling across the road to take him home to supper. Father Abram’s
eyes were fixed upon the broken door of the cottage.

And then came another wonder. In the gallery overhead the sacks of
flour were stacked in long rows. Perhaps a mouse had been at one of
them; anyway the jar of the deep organ note shook down between the
cracks of the gallery floor a stream of flour, covering Father Abram
from head to foot with the white dust. And then the old miller stepped
into the aisle, and waved his arms and began to sing the miller’s song:

“The wheel goes round,
The grist is ground,
    The dusty miller’s merry.”


—and then the rest of the miracle happened. Miss Chester was leaning
forward from her pew, as pale as the flour itself, her wide-open eyes
staring at Father Abram like one in a waking dream. When he began the
song she stretched out her arms to him; her lips moved; she called to
him in dreamy tones: “Da-da, come take Dums home!”

Miss Phœbe released the low key of the organ. But her work had been
well done. The note that she struck had beaten down the doors of a
closed memory; and Father Abram held his lost Aglaia close in his arms.

When you visit Lakelands they will tell you more of this story. They
will tell you how the lines of it were afterward traced, and the
history of the miller’s daughter revealed after the gipsy wanderers had
stolen her on that September day, attracted by her childish beauty. But
you should wait until you sit comfortably on the shaded porch of the
Eagle House, and then you can have the story at your ease. It seems
best that our part of it should close while Miss Phœbe’s deep bass note
was yet reverberating softly.

And yet, to my mind, the finest thing of it all happened while Father
Abram and his daughter were walking back to the Eagle House in the long
twilight, almost too glad to speak.

“Father,” she said, somewhat timidly and doubtfully, “have you a great
deal of money?”

“A great deal?” said the miller. “Well, that depends. There is plenty
unless you want to buy the moon or something equally expensive.”

“Would it cost very, very much,” asked Aglaia, who had always counted
her dimes so carefully, “to send a telegram to Atlanta?”

“Ah,” said Father Abram, with a little sigh, “I see. You want to ask
Ralph to come.”

Aglaia looked up at him with a tender smile.

“I want to ask him to wait,” she said. “I have just found my father,
and I want it to be just we two for a while. I want to tell him he will
have to wait.”




XVII.
NEW YORK BY CAMP FIRE LIGHT


Away out in the Creek Nation we learned things about New York.

We were on a hunting trip, and were camped one night on the bank of a
little stream. Bud Kingsbury was our skilled hunter and guide, and it
was from his lips that we had explanations of Manhattan and the queer
folks that inhabit it. Bud had once spent a month in the metropolis,
and a week or two at other times, and he was pleased to discourse to us
of what he had seen.

Fifty yards away from our camp was pitched the teepee of a wandering
family of Indians that had come up and settled there for the night. An
old, old Indian woman was trying to build a fire under an iron pot hung
upon three sticks.

Bud went over to her assistance, and soon had her fire going. When he
came back we complimented him playfully upon his gallantry.

“Oh,” said Bud, “don’t mention it. It’s a way I have. Whenever I see a
lady trying to cook things in a pot and having trouble I always go to
the rescue. I done the same thing once in a high-toned house in. New
York City. Heap big society teepee on Fifth Avenue. That Injun lady
kind of recalled it to my mind. Yes, I endeavours to be polite and help
the ladies out.”

The camp demanded the particulars.

“I was manager of the Triangle B Ranch in the Panhandle,” said Bud. “It
was owned at that time by old man Sterling, of New York. He wanted to
sell out, and he wrote for me to come on to New York and explain the
ranch to the syndicate that wanted to buy. So I sends to Fort Worth and
has a forty dollar suit of clothes made, and hits the trail for the big
village.

“Well, when I got there, old man Sterling and his outfit certainly laid
themselves out to be agreeable. We had business and pleasure so mixed
up that you couldn’t tell whether it was a treat or a trade half the
time. We had trolley rides, and cigars, and theatre round-ups, and
rubber parties.”

“Rubber parties?” said a listener, inquiringly.

“Sure,” said Bud. “Didn’t you never attend ’em? You walk around and try
to look at the tops of the skyscrapers. Well, we sold the ranch, and
old man Sterling asks me ’round to his house to take grub on the night
before I started back. It wasn’t any high-collared affair—just me and
the old man and his wife and daughter. But they was a fine-haired
outfit all right, and the lilies of the field wasn’t in it. They made
my Fort Worth clothes carpenter look like a dealer in horse blankets
and gee strings. And then the table was all pompous with flowers, and
there was a whole kit of tools laid out beside everybody’s plate. You’d
have thought you was fixed out to burglarize a restaurant before you
could get your grub. But I’d been in New York over a week then, and I
was getting on to stylish ways. I kind of trailed behind and watched
the others use the hardware supplies, and then I tackled the chuck with
the same weapons. It ain’t much trouble to travel with the high-flyers
after you find out their gait. I got along fine. I was feeling cool and
agreeable, and pretty soon I was talking away fluent as you please, all
about the ranch and the West, and telling ’em how the Indians eat
grasshopper stew and snakes, and you never saw people so interested.

“But the real joy of that feast was that Miss Sterling. Just a little
trick she was, not bigger than two bits’ worth of chewing plug; but she
had a way about her that seemed to say she was the people, and you
believed it. And yet, she never put on any airs, and she smiled at me
the same as if I was a millionaire while I was telling about a Creek
dog feast and listened like it was news from home.

“By and by, after we had eat oysters and some watery soup and truck
that never was in my repertory, a Methodist preacher brings in a kind
of camp stove arrangement, all silver, on long legs, with a lamp under
it.

“Miss Sterling lights up and begins to do some cooking right on the
supper table. I wondered why old man Sterling didn’t hire a cook, with
all the money he had. Pretty soon she dished out some cheesy tasting
truck that she said was rabbit, but I swear there had never been a
Molly cotton tail in a mile of it.

“The last thing on the programme was lemonade. It was brought around in
little flat glass bowls and set by your plate. I was pretty thirsty,
and I picked up mine and took a big swig of it. Right there was where
the little lady had made a mistake. She had put in the lemon all right,
but she’d forgot the sugar. The best housekeepers slip up sometimes. I
thought maybe Miss Sterling was just learning to keep house and
cook—that rabbit would surely make you think so—and I says to myself,
‘Little lady, sugar or no sugar I’ll stand by you,’ and I raises up my
bowl again and drinks the last drop of the lemonade. And then all the
balance of ’em picks up their bowls and does the same. And then I gives
Miss Sterling the laugh proper, just to carry it off like a joke, so
she wouldn’t feel bad about the mistake.

“After we all went into the sitting room she sat down and talked to me
quite awhile.

“‘It was so kind of you, Mr. Kingsbury,’ says she, ‘to bring my blunder
off so nicely. It was so stupid of me to forget the sugar.’

“‘Never you mind,’ says I, ‘some lucky man will throw his rope over a
mighty elegant little housekeeper some day, not far from here.’

“‘If you mean me, Mr. Kingsbury,’ says she, laughing out loud, ‘I hope
he will be as lenient with my poor housekeeping as you have been.’

“‘Don’t mention it,’ says I. ‘Anything to oblige the ladies.’”

Bud ceased his reminiscences. And then some one asked him what he
considered the most striking and prominent trait of New Yorkers.

“The most visible and peculiar trait of New York folks,” answered Bud,
“is New York. Most of ’em has New York on the brain. They have heard of
other places, such as Waco, and Paris, and Hot Springs, and London; but
they don’t believe in ’em. They think that town is all Merino. Now to
show you how much they care for their village I’ll tell you about one
of ’em that strayed out as far as the Triangle B while I was working
there.

“This New Yorker come out there looking for a job on the ranch. He said
he was a good horseback rider, and there was pieces of tanbark hanging
on his clothes yet from his riding school.

“Well, for a while they put him to keeping books in the ranch store,
for he was a devil at figures. But he got tired of that, and asked for
something more in the line of activity. The boys on the ranch liked him
all right, but he made us tired shouting New York all the time. Every
night he’d tell us about East River and J. P. Morgan and the Eden Musee
and Hetty Green and Central Park till we used to throw tin plates and
branding irons at him.

“One day this chap gets on a pitching pony, and the pony kind of sidled
up his back and went to eating grass while the New Yorker was coming
down.

“He come down on his head on a chunk of mesquit wood, and he didn’t
show any designs toward getting up again. We laid him out in a tent,
and he begun to look pretty dead. So Gideon Pease saddles up and burns
the wind for old Doc Sleeper’s residence in Dogtown, thirty miles away.

“The doctor comes over and he investigates the patient.

“‘Boys,’ says he, ‘you might as well go to playing seven-up for his
saddle and clothes, for his head’s fractured and if he lives ten
minutes it will be a remarkable case of longevity.’

“Of course we didn’t gamble for the poor rooster’s saddle—that was one
of Doc’s jokes. But we stood around feeling solemn, and all of us
forgive him for having talked us to death about New York.

“I never saw anybody about to hand in his checks act more peaceful than
this fellow. His eyes were fixed ’way up in the air, and he was using
rambling words to himself all about sweet music and beautiful streets
and white-robed forms, and he was smiling like dying was a pleasure.

“‘He’s about gone now,’ said Doc. ‘Whenever they begin to think they
see heaven it’s all off.’

“Blamed if that New York man didn’t sit right up when he heard the Doc
say that.

“‘Say,’ says he, kind of disappointed, ‘was that heaven? Confound it
all, I thought it was Broadway. Some of you fellows get my clothes. I’m
going to get up.’

“And I’ll be blamed,” concluded Bud, “if he wasn’t on the train with a
ticket for New York in his pocket four days afterward!”




XVIII.
THE ADVENTURES OF SHAMROCK JOLNES


I am so fortunate as to count Shamrock Jolnes, the great New York
detective, among my muster of friends. Jolnes is what is called the
“inside man” of the city detective force. He is an expert in the use of
the typewriter, and it is his duty, whenever there is a “murder
mystery” to be solved, to sit at a desk telephone at headquarters and
take down the messages of “cranks” who ’phone in their confessions to
having committed the crime.

But on certain “off” days when confessions are coming in slowly and
three or four newspapers have run to earth as many different guilty
persons, Jolnes will knock about the town with me, exhibiting, to my
great delight and instruction, his marvellous powers of observation and
deduction.

The other day I dropped in at Headquarters and found the great
detective gazing thoughtfully at a string that was tied tightly around
his little finger.

“Good morning, Whatsup,” he said, without turning his head. “I’m glad
to notice that you’ve had your house fitted up with electric lights at
last.”

“Will you please tell me,” I said, in surprise, “how you knew that? I
am sure that I never mentioned the fact to any one, and the wiring was
a rush order not completed until this morning.”

“Nothing easier,” said Jolnes, genially. “As you came in I caught the
odour of the cigar you are smoking. I know an expensive cigar; and I
know that not more than three men in New York can afford to smoke
cigars and pay gas bills too at the present time. That was an easy one.
But I am working just now on a little problem of my own.”

“Why have you that string on your finger?” I asked.

“That’s the problem,” said Jolnes. “My wife tied that on this morning
to remind me of something I was to send up to the house. Sit down,
Whatsup, and excuse me for a few moments.”

The distinguished detective went to a wall telephone, and stood with
the receiver to his ear for probably ten minutes.

“Were you listening to a confession?” I asked, when he had returned to
his chair.

“Perhaps,” said Jolnes, with a smile, “it might be called something of
the sort. To be frank with you, Whatsup, I’ve cut out the dope. I’ve
been increasing the quantity for so long that morphine doesn’t have
much effect on me any more. I’ve got to have something more powerful.
That telephone I just went to is connected with a room in the Waldorf
where there’s an author’s reading in progress. Now, to get at the
solution of this string.”

After five minutes of silent pondering, Jolnes looked at me, with a
smile, and nodded his head.

“Wonderful man!” I exclaimed; “already?”

“It is quite simple,” he said, holding up his finger. “You see that
knot? That is to prevent my forgetting. It is, therefore, a
forget-me-knot. A forget-me-not is a flower. It was a sack of flour
that I was to send home!”

“Beautiful!” I could not help crying out in admiration.

“Suppose we go out for a ramble,” suggested Jolnes.

“There is only one case of importance on hand just now. Old man
McCarty, one hundred and four years old, died from eating too many
bananas. The evidence points so strongly to the Mafia that the police
have surrounded the Second Avenue Katzenjammer Gambrinus Club No. 2,
and the capture of the assassin is only the matter of a few hours. The
detective force has not yet been called on for assistance.”

Jolnes and I went out and up the street toward the corner, where we
were to catch a surface car.

Half-way up the block we met Rheingelder, an acquaintance of ours, who
held a City Hall position.

“Good morning, Rheingelder,” said Jolnes, halting.

“Nice breakfast that was you had this morning.”

Always on the lookout for the detective’s remarkable feats of
deduction, I saw Jolnes’s eye flash for an instant upon a long yellow
splash on the shirt bosom and a smaller one upon the chin of
Rheingelder—both undoubtedly made by the yolk of an egg.

“Oh, dot is some of your detectiveness,” said Rheingelder, shaking all
over with a smile. “Vell, I pet you trinks und cigars all round dot you
cannot tell vot I haf eaten for breakfast.”

“Done,” said Jolnes. “Sausage, pumpernickel and coffee.”

Rheingelder admitted the correctness of the surmise and paid the bet.
When we had proceeded on our way I said to Jolnes:

“I thought you looked at the egg spilled on his chin and shirt front.”

“I did,” said Jolnes. “That is where I began my deduction. Rheingelder
is a very economical, saving man. Yesterday eggs dropped in the market
to twenty-eight cents per dozen. To-day they are quoted at forty-two.
Rheingelder ate eggs yesterday, and to-day he went back to his usual
fare. A little thing like this isn’t anything, Whatsup; it belongs to
the primary arithmetic class.”

When we boarded the street car we found the seats all
occupied—principally by ladies. Jolnes and I stood on the rear
platform.

About the middle of the car there sat an elderly man with a short, gray
beard, who looked to be the typical, well-dressed New Yorker. At
successive corners other ladies climbed aboard, and soon three or four
of them were standing over the man, clinging to straps and glaring
meaningly at the man who occupied the coveted seat. But he resolutely
retained his place.

“We New Yorkers,” I remarked to Jolnes, “have about lost our manners,
as far as the exercise of them in public goes.”

“Perhaps so,” said Jolnes, lightly; “but the man you evidently refer to
happens to be a very chivalrous and courteous gentleman from Old
Virginia. He is spending a few days in New York with his wife and two
daughters, and he leaves for the South to-night.”

“You know him, then?” I said, in amazement.

“I never saw him before we stepped on the car,” declared the detective,
smilingly.

“By the gold tooth of the Witch of Endor!” I cried, “if you can
construe all that from his appearance you are dealing in nothing else
than black art.”

“The habit of observation—nothing more,” said Jolnes. “If the old
gentleman gets off the car before we do, I think I can demonstrate to
you the accuracy of my deduction.”

Three blocks farther along the gentleman rose to leave the car. Jolnes
addressed him at the door:

“Pardon me, sir, but are you not Colonel Hunter, of Norfolk, Virginia?”

“No, suh,” was the extremely courteous answer. “My name, suh, is
Ellison—Major Winfield R. Ellison, from Fairfax County, in the same
state. I know a good many people, suh, in Norfolk—the Goodriches, the
Tollivers, and the Crabtrees, suh, but I never had the pleasure of
meeting yo’ friend, Colonel Hunter. I am happy to say, suh, that I am
going back to Virginia to-night, after having spent a week in yo’ city
with my wife and three daughters. I shall be in Norfolk in about ten
days, and if you will give me yo’ name, suh, I will take pleasure in
looking up Colonel Hunter and telling him that you inquired after him,
suh.”

“Thank you,” said Jolnes; “tell him that Reynolds sent his regards, if
you will be so kind.”

I glanced at the great New York detective and saw that a look of
intense chagrin had come upon his clear-cut features. Failure in the
slightest point always galled Shamrock Jolnes.

“Did you say your _three_ daughters?” he asked of the Virginia
gentleman.

“Yes, suh, my three daughters, all as fine girls as there are in
Fairfax County,” was the answer.

With that Major Ellison stopped the car and began to descend the step.

Shamrock Jolnes clutched his arm.

“One moment, sir,” he begged, in an urbane voice in which I alone
detected the anxiety—“am I not right in believing that one of the young
ladies is an _adopted_ daughter?”

“You are, suh,” admitted the major, from the ground, “but how the devil
you knew it, suh, is mo’ than I can tell.”

“And mo’ than I can tell, too,” I said, as the car went on.

Jolnes was restored to his calm, observant serenity by having wrested
victory from his apparent failure; so after we got off the car he
invited me into a café, promising to reveal the process of his latest
wonderful feat.

“In the first place,” he began after we were comfortably seated, “I
knew the gentleman was no New Yorker because he was flushed and uneasy
and restless on account of the ladies that were standing, although he
did not rise and give them his seat. I decided from his appearance that
he was a Southerner rather than a Westerner.

“Next I began to figure out his reason for not relinquishing his seat
to a lady when he evidently felt strongly, but not overpoweringly,
impelled to do so. I very quickly decided upon that. I noticed that one
of his eyes had received a severe jab in one corner, which was red and
inflamed, and that all over his face were tiny round marks about the
size of the end of an uncut lead pencil. Also upon both of his patent
leather shoes were a number of deep imprints shaped like ovals cut off
square at one end.

“Now, there is only one district in New York City where a man is bound
to receive scars and wounds and indentations of that sort—and that is
along the sidewalks of Twenty-third Street and a portion of Sixth
Avenue south of there. I knew from the imprints of trampling French
heels on his feet and the marks of countless jabs in the face from
umbrellas and parasols carried by women in the shopping district that
he had been in conflict with the amazonian troops. And as he was a man
of intelligent appearance, I knew he would not have braved such dangers
unless he had been dragged thither by his own women folk. Therefore,
when he got on the car his anger at the treatment he had received was
sufficient to make him keep his seat in spite of his traditions of
Southern chivalry.”

“That is all very well,” I said, “but why did you insist upon
daughters—and especially two daughters? Why couldn’t a wife alone have
taken him shopping?”

“There had to be daughters,” said Jolnes, calmly. “If he had only a
wife, and she near his own age, he could have bluffed her into going
alone. If he had a young wife she would prefer to go alone. So there
you are.”

“I’ll admit that,” I said; “but, now, why two daughters? And how, in
the name of all the prophets, did you guess that one was adopted when
he told you he had three?”

“Don’t say guess,” said Jolnes, with a touch of pride in his air;
“there is no such word in the lexicon of ratiocination. In Major
Ellison’s buttonhole there was a carnation and a rosebud backed by a
geranium leaf. No woman ever combined a carnation and a rosebud into a
boutonniere. Close your eyes, Whatsup, and give the logic of your
imagination a chance. Cannot you see the lovely Adele fastening the
carnation to the lapel so that papa may be gay upon the street? And
then the romping Edith May dancing up with sisterly jealousy to add her
rosebud to the adornment?”

“And then,” I cried, beginning to feel enthusiasm, “when he declared
that he had three daughters—”

“I could see,” said Jolnes, “one in the background who added no flower;
and I knew that she must be—”

“Adopted!” I broke in. “I give you every credit; but how did you know
he was leaving for the South to-night?”

“In his breast pocket,” said the great detective, “something large and
oval made a protuberance. Good liquor is scarce on trains, and it is a
long journey from New York to Fairfax County.”

“Again, I must bow to you,” I said. “And tell me this, so that my last
shred of doubt will be cleared away; why did you decide that he was
from Virginia?”

“It was very faint, I admit,” answered Shamrock Jolnes, “but no trained
observer could have failed to detect the odour of mint in the car.”




XIX.
THE LADY HIGHER UP


New York City, they said, was deserted; and that accounted, doubtless,
for the sounds carrying so far in the tranquil summer air. The breeze
was south-by-southwest; the hour was midnight; the theme was a bit of
feminine gossip by wireless mythology. Three hundred and sixty-five
feet above the heated asphalt the tiptoeing symbolic deity on Manhattan
pointed her vacillating arrow straight, for the time, in the direction
of her exalted sister on Liberty Island. The lights of the great Garden
were out; the benches in the Square were filled with sleepers in
postures so strange that beside them the writhing figures in Dore’s
illustrations of the Inferno would have straightened into tailor’s
dummies. The statue of Diana on the tower of the Garden—its constancy
shown by its weathercock ways, its innocence by the coating of gold
that it has acquired, its devotion to style by its single, graceful
flying scarf, its candour and artlessness by its habit of ever drawing
the long bow, its metropolitanism by its posture of swift flight to
catch a Harlem train—remained poised with its arrow pointed across the
upper bay. Had that arrow sped truly and horizontally it would have
passed fifty feet above the head of the heroic matron whose duty it is
to offer a cast-ironical welcome to the oppressed of other lands.

Seaward this lady gazed, and the furrows between steamship lines began
to cut steerage rates. The translators, too, have put an extra burden
upon her. “Liberty Lighting the World” (as her creator christened her)
would have had a no more responsible duty, except for the size of it,
than that of an electrician or a Standard Oil magnate. But to
“enlighten” the world (as our learned civic guardians “Englished” it)
requires abler qualities. And so poor Liberty, instead of having a
sinecure as a mere illuminator, must be converted into a Chautauqua
schoolma’am, with the oceans for her field instead of the placid,
classic lake. With a fireless torch and an empty head must she dispel
the shadows of the world and teach it its A, B, C’s.

“Ah, there, Mrs. Liberty!” called a clear, rollicking soprano voice
through the still, midnight air.

“Is that you, Miss Diana? Excuse my not turning my head. I’m not as
flighty and whirly-whirly as some. And ’tis so hoarse I am I can hardly
talk on account of the peanut-hulls left on the stairs in me throat by
that last boatload of tourists from Marietta, Ohio. ’Tis after being a
fine evening, miss.”

“If you don’t mind my asking,” came the bell-like tones of the golden
statue, “I’d like to know where you got that City Hall brogue. I didn’t
know that Liberty was necessarily Irish.”

“If ye’d studied the history of art in its foreign complications ye’d
not need to ask,” replied the offshore statue. “If ye wasn’t so
light-headed and giddy ye’d know that I was made by a Dago and
presented to the American people on behalf of the French Government for
the purpose of welcomin’ Irish immigrants into the Dutch city of New
York. ’Tis that I’ve been doing night and day since I was erected. Ye
must know, Miss Diana, that ’tis with statues the same as with
people—’tis not their makers nor the purposes for which they were
created that influence the operations of their tongues at all—it’s the
associations with which they become associated, I’m telling ye.”

“You’re dead right,” agreed Diana. “I notice it on myself. If any of
the old guys from Olympus were to come along and hand me any hot air in
the ancient Greek I couldn’t tell it from a conversation between a
Coney Island car conductor and a five-cent fare.”

“I’m right glad ye’ve made up your mind to be sociable, Miss Diana,”
said Mrs. Liberty. “’Tis a lonesome life I have down here. Is there
anything doin’ up in the city, Miss Diana, dear?”

“Oh, la, la, la!—no,” said Diana. “Notice that ‘la, la, la,’ Aunt
Liberty? Got that from ‘Paris by Night’ on the roof garden under me.
You’ll hear that ‘la, la, la’ at the Café McCann now, along with
‘garsong.’ The bohemian crowd there have become tired of ‘garsong’
since O’Rafferty, the head waiter, punched three of them for calling
him it. Oh, no; the town’s strickly on the bum these nights.
Everybody’s away. Saw a downtown merchant on a roof garden this evening
with his stenographer. Show was so dull he went to sleep. A waiter
biting on a dime tip to see if it was good half woke him up. He looks
around and sees his little pothooks perpetrator. ‘H’m!’ says he, ‘will
you take a letter, Miss De St. Montmorency?’ ‘Sure, in a minute,’ says
she, ‘if you’ll make it an X.’

“That was the best thing happened on the roof. So you see how dull it
is. La, la, la!”

“’Tis fine ye have it up there in society, Miss Diana. Ye have the cat
show and the horse show and the military tournaments where the privates
look grand as generals and the generals try to look grand as
floor-walkers. And ye have the Sportsmen’s Show, where the girl that
measures 36, 19, 45 cooks breakfast food in a birch-bark wigwam on the
banks of the Grand Canal of Venice conducted by one of the Vanderbilts,
Bernard McFadden, and the Reverends Dowie and Duss. And ye have the
French ball, where the original Cohens and the Robert Emmet-Sangerbund
Society dance the Highland fling one with another. And ye have the
grand O’Ryan ball, which is the most beautiful pageant in the world,
where the French students vie with the Tyrolean warblers in doin’ the
cake walk. Ye have the best job for a statue in the whole town, Miss
Diana.

“’Tis weary work,” sighed the island statue, “disseminatin’ the science
of liberty in New York Bay. Sometimes when I take a peep down at Ellis
Island and see the gang of immigrants I’m supposed to light up, ’tis
tempted I am to blow out the gas and let the coroner write out their
naturalization papers.”

“Say, it’s a shame, ain’t it, to give you the worst end of it?” came
the sympathetic antiphony of the steeplechase goddess. “It must be
awfully lonesome down there with so much water around you. I don’t see
how you ever keep your hair in curl. And that Mother Hubbard you are
wearing went out ten years ago. I think those sculptor guys ought to be
held for damages for putting iron or marble clothes on a lady. That’s
where Mr. St. Gaudens was wise. I’m always a little ahead of the
styles; but they’re coming my way pretty fast. Excuse my back a
moment—I caught a puff of wind from the north—shouldn’t wonder if
things had loosened up in Esopus. There, now! it’s in the West—I should
think that gold plank would have calmed the air out in that direction.
What were you saying, Mrs. Liberty?”

“A fine chat I’ve had with ye, Miss Diana, ma’am, but I see one of them
European steamers a-sailin’ up the Narrows, and I must be attendin’ to
me duties. ’Tis me job to extend aloft the torch of Liberty to welcome
all them that survive the kicks that the steerage stewards give ’em
while landin.’ Sure ’tis a great country ye can come to for $8.50, and
the doctor waitin’ to send ye back home free if he sees yer eyes red
from cryin’ for it.”

The golden statue veered in the changing breeze, menacing many points
on the horizon with its aureate arrow.

“So long, Aunt Liberty,” sweetly called Diana of the Tower. “Some
night, when the wind’s right. I’ll call you up again. But—say! you
haven’t got such a fierce kick coming about your job. I’ve kept a
pretty good watch on the island of Manhattan since I’ve been up here.
That’s a pretty sick-looking bunch of liberty chasers they dump down at
your end of it; but they don’t all stay that way. Every little while up
here I see guys signing checks and voting the right ticket, and
encouraging the arts and taking a bath every morning, that was shoved
ashore by a dock labourer born in the United States who never earned
over forty dollars a month. Don’t run down your job, Aunt Liberty;
you’re all right, all right.”




XX.
THE GREATER CONEY


“Next Sunday,” said Dennis Carnahan, “I’ll be after going down to see
the new Coney Island that’s risen like a phoenix bird from the ashes of
the old resort. I’m going with Norah Flynn, and we’ll fall victims to
all the dry goods deceptions, from the red-flannel eruption of Mount
Vesuvius to the pink silk ribbons on the race-suicide problems in the
incubator kiosk.

“Was I there before? I was. I was there last Tuesday. Did I see the
sights? I did not.

“Last Monday I amalgamated myself with the Bricklayers’ Union, and in
accordance with the rules I was ordered to quit work the same day on
account of a sympathy strike with the Lady Salmon Canners’ Lodge No.2,
of Tacoma, Washington.

“’Twas disturbed I was in mind and proclivities by losing me job, bein’
already harassed in me soul on account of havin’ quarrelled with Norah
Flynn a week before by reason of hard words spoken at the Dairymen and
Street-Sprinkler Drivers’ semi-annual ball, caused by jealousy and
prickly heat and that divil, Andy Coghlin.

“So, I says, it will be Coney for Tuesday; and if the chutes and the
short change and the green-corn silk between the teeth don’t create
diversions and get me feeling better, then I don’t know at all.

“Ye will have heard that Coney has received moral reconstruction. The
old Bowery, where they used to take your tintype by force and give ye
knockout drops before having your palm read, is now called the Wall
Street of the island. The wienerwurst stands are required by law to
keep a news ticker in ’em; and the doughnuts are examined every four
years by a retired steamboat inspector. The nigger man’s head that was
used by the old patrons to throw baseballs at is now illegal; and, by
order of the Police Commissioner the image of a man drivin’ an
automobile has been substituted. I hear that the old immoral amusements
have been suppressed. People who used to go down from New York to sit
in the sand and dabble in the surf now give up their quarters to
squeeze through turnstiles and see imitations of city fires and floods
painted on canvas. The reprehensible and degradin’ resorts that
disgraced old Coney are said to be wiped out. The wipin’-out process
consists of raisin’ the price from 10 cents to 25 cents, and hirin’ a
blonde named Maudie to sell tickets instead of Micky, the Bowery Bite.
That’s what they say—I don’t know.

“But to Coney I goes a-Tuesday. I gets off the ‘L’ and starts for the
glitterin’ show. ’Twas a fine sight. The Babylonian towers and the
Hindoo roof gardens was blazin’ with thousands of electric lights, and
the streets was thick with people. ’Tis a true thing they say that
Coney levels all rank. I see millionaires eatin’ popcorn and trampin’
along with the crowd; and I see eight-dollar-a-week clothin’-store
clerks in red automobiles fightin’ one another for who’d squeeze the
horn when they come to a corner.

“‘I made a mistake,’ I says to myself. ’Twas not Coney I needed. When a
man’s sad ’tis not scenes of hilarity he wants. ’Twould be far better
for him to meditate in a graveyard or to attend services at the
Paradise Roof Gardens. ’Tis no consolation when a man’s lost his
sweetheart to order hot corn and have the waiter bring him the powdered
sugar cruet instead of salt and then conceal himself, or to have
Zozookum, the gipsy palmist, tell him that he has three children and to
look out for another serious calamity; price twenty-five cents.

“I walked far away down on the beach, to the ruins of an old pavilion
near one corner of this new private park, Dreamland. A year ago that
old pavilion was standin’ up straight and the old-style waiters was
slammin’ a week’s supply of clam chowder down in front of you for a
nickel and callin’ you ‘cully’ friendly, and vice was rampant, and you
got back to New York with enough change to take a car at the bridge.
Now they tell me that they serve Welsh rabbits on Surf Avenue, and you
get the right change back in the movin’-picture joints.

“I sat down at one side of the old pavilion and looked at the surf
spreadin’ itself on the beach, and thought about the time me and Norah
Flynn sat on that spot last summer. ’Twas before reform struck the
island; and we was happy. We had tintypes and chowder in the ribald
dives, and the Egyptian Sorceress of the Nile told Norah out of her
hand, while I was waitin’ in the door, that ’twould be the luck of her
to marry a red-headed gossoon with two crooked legs, and I was
overrunnin’ with joy on account of the allusion. And ’twas there that
Norah Flynn put her two hands in mine a year before and we talked of
flats and the things she could cook and the love business that goes
with such episodes. And that was Coney as we loved it, and as the hand
of Satan was upon it, friendly and noisy and your money’s worth, with
no fence around the ocean and not too many electric lights to show the
sleeve of a black serge coat against a white shirtwaist.

“I sat with my back to the parks where they had the moon and the dreams
and the steeples corralled, and longed for the old Coney. There wasn’t
many people on the beach. Lots of them was feedin’ pennies into the
slot machines to see the ‘Interrupted Courtship’ in the movin’
pictures; and a good many was takin’ the sea air in the Canals of
Venice and some was breathin’ the smoke of the sea battle by actual
warships in a tank filled with real water. A few was down on the sands
enjoyin’ the moonlight and the water. And the heart of me was heavy for
the new morals of the old island, while the bands behind me played and
the sea pounded on the bass drum in front.

“And directly I got up and walked along the old pavilion, and there on
the other side of, half in the dark, was a slip of a girl sittin’ on
the tumble-down timbers, and unless I’m a liar she was cryin’ by
herself there, all alone.

“‘Is it trouble you are in, now, Miss,’ says I; ‘and what’s to be done
about it?’

“‘’Tis none of your business at all, Denny Carnahan,’ says she, sittin’
up straight. And it was the voice of no other than Norah Flynn.

“‘Then it’s not,’ says I, ‘and we’re after having a pleasant evening,
Miss Flynn. Have ye seen the sights of this new Coney Island, then? I
presume ye have come here for that purpose,’ says I.

“‘I have,’ says she. ‘Me mother and Uncle Tim they are waiting beyond.
’Tis an elegant evening I’ve had. I’ve seen all the attractions that
be.’

“‘Right ye are,’ says I to Norah; and I don’t know when I’ve been that
amused. After disportin’ me-self among the most laughable moral
improvements of the revised shell games I took meself to the shore for
the benefit of the cool air. ‘And did ye observe the Durbar, Miss
Flynn?’

“‘I did,’ says she, reflectin’; ‘but ’tis not safe, I’m thinkin’, to
ride down them slantin’ things into the water.’

“‘How did ye fancy the shoot the chutes?’ I asks.

“‘True, then, I’m afraid of guns,’ says Norah. ‘They make such noise in
my ears. But Uncle Tim, he shot them, he did, and won cigars. ’Tis a
fine time we had this day, Mr. Carnahan.’

“‘I’m glad you’ve enjoyed yerself,’ I says. ‘I suppose you’ve had a
roarin’ fine time seein’ the sights. And how did the incubators and the
helter-skelter and the midgets suit the taste of ye?’

“‘I—I wasn’t hungry,’ says Norah, faint. ‘But mother ate a quantity of
all of ’em. I’m that pleased with the fine things in the new Coney
Island,’ says she, ‘that it’s the happiest day I’ve seen in a long
time, at all.’

“‘Did you see Venice?’ says I.

“‘We did,’ says she. ‘She was a beauty. She was all dressed in red, she
was, with—’

“I listened no more to Norah Flynn. I stepped up and I gathered her in
my arms.

“‘’Tis a story-teller ye are, Norah Flynn’, says I. ‘Ye’ve seen no more
of the greater Coney Island than I have meself. Come, now, tell the
truth—ye came to sit by the old pavilion by the waves where you sat
last summer and made Dennis Carnahan a happy man. Speak up, and tell
the truth.’

“Norah stuck her nose against me vest.

“‘I despise it, Denny,’ she says, half cryin’. ‘Mother and Uncle Tim
went to see the shows, but I came down here to think of you. I couldn’t
bear the lights and the crowd. Are you forgivin’ me, Denny, for the
words we had?’

“‘’Twas me fault,’ says I. ‘I came here for the same reason meself.
Look at the lights, Norah,’ I says, turning my back to the sea—‘ain’t
they pretty?’

“‘They are,’ says Norah, with her eyes shinin’; ‘and do ye hear the
bands playin’? Oh, Denny, I think I’d like to see it all.’

“‘The old Coney is gone, darlin’,’ I says to her. ‘Everything moves.
When a man’s glad it’s not scenes of sadness he wants. ’Tis a greater
Coney we have here, but we couldn’t see it till we got in the humour
for it. Next Sunday, Norah darlin’, we’ll see the new place from end to
end.”




XXI.
LAW AND ORDER


I found myself in Texas recently, revisiting old places and vistas. At
a sheep ranch where I had sojourned many years ago, I stopped for a
week. And, as all visitors do, I heartily plunged into the business at
hand, which happened to be that of dipping the sheep.

Now, this process is so different from ordinary human baptism that it
deserves a word of itself. A vast iron cauldron with half the fires of
Avernus beneath it is partly filled with water that soon boils
furiously. Into that is cast concentrated lye, lime, and sulphur, which
is allowed to stew and fume until the witches’ broth is strong enough
to scorch the third arm of Palladino herself.

Then this concentrated brew is mixed in a long, deep vat with cubic
gallons of hot water, and the sheep are caught by their hind legs and
flung into the compound. After being thoroughly ducked by means of a
forked pole in the hands of a gentleman detailed for that purpose, they
are allowed to clamber up an incline into a corral and dry or die, as
the state of their constitutions may decree. If you ever caught an
able-bodied, two-year-old mutton by the hind legs and felt the 750
volts of kicking that he can send though your arm seventeen times
before you can hurl him into the vat, you will, of course, hope that he
may die instead of dry.

But this is merely to explain why Bud Oakley and I gladly stretched
ourselves on the bank of the nearby _charco_ after the dipping, glad
for the welcome inanition and pure contact with the earth after our
muscle-racking labours. The flock was a small one, and we finished at
three in the afternoon; so Bud brought from the _morral_ on his saddle
horn, coffee and a coffeepot and a big hunk of bread and some side
bacon. Mr. Mills, the ranch owner and my old friend, rode away to the
ranch with his force of Mexican _trabajadores_.

While the bacon was frizzling nicely, there was the sound of horses’
hoofs behind us. Bud’s six-shooter lay in its scabbard ten feet away
from his hand. He paid not the slightest heed to the approaching
horseman. This attitude of a Texas ranchman was so different from the
old-time custom that I marvelled. Instinctively I turned to inspect the
possible foe that menaced us in the rear. I saw a horseman dressed in
black, who might have been a lawyer or a parson or an undertaker,
trotting peaceably along the road by the _arroyo_.

Bud noticed my precautionary movement and smiled sarcastically and
sorrowfully.

“You’ve been away too long,” said he. “You don’t need to look around
any more when anybody gallops up behind you in this state, unless
something hits you in the back; and even then it’s liable to be only a
bunch of tracts or a petition to sign against the trusts. I never
looked at that _hombre_ that rode by; but I’ll bet a quart of sheep dip
that he’s some double-dyed son of a popgun out rounding up prohibition
votes.”

“Times have changed, Bud,” said I, oracularly. “Law and order is the
rule now in the South and the Southwest.”

I caught a cold gleam from Bud’s pale blue eyes.

“Not that I—” I began, hastily.

“Of course you don’t,” said Bud warmly. “You know better. You’ve lived
here before. Law and order, you say? Twenty years ago we had ’em here.
We only had two or three laws, such as against murder before witnesses,
and being caught stealing horses, and voting the Republican ticket. But
how is it now? All we get is orders; and the laws go out of the state.
Them legislators set up there at Austin and don’t do nothing but make
laws against kerosene oil and schoolbooks being brought into the state.
I reckon they was afraid some man would go home some evening after work
and light up and get an education and go to work and make laws to
repeal aforesaid laws. Me, I’m for the old days when law and order
meant what they said. A law was a law, and a order was a order.”

“But—” I began.

“I was going on,” continued Bud, “while this coffee is boiling, to
describe to you a case of genuine law and order that I knew of once in
the times when cases was decided in the chambers of a six-shooter
instead of a supreme court.

“You’ve heard of old Ben Kirkman, the cattle king? His ranch run from
the Nueces to the Rio Grande. In them days, as you know, there was
cattle barons and cattle kings. The difference was this: when a
cattleman went to San Antone and bought beer for the newspaper
reporters and only give them the number of cattle he actually owned,
they wrote him up for a baron. When he bought ’em champagne wine and
added in the amount of cattle he had stole, they called him a king.

“Luke Summers was one of his range bosses. And down to the king’s ranch
comes one day a bunch of these Oriental people from New York or Kansas
City or thereabouts. Luke was detailed with a squad to ride about with
’em, and see that the rattlesnakes got fair warning when they was
coming, and drive the deer out of their way. Among the bunch was a
black-eyed girl that wore a number two shoe. That’s all I noticed about
her. But Luke must have seen more, for he married her one day before
the _caballard_ started back, and went over on Canada Verde and set up
a ranch of his own. I’m skipping over the sentimental stuff on purpose,
because I never saw or wanted to see any of it. And Luke takes me along
with him because we was old friends and I handled cattle to suit him.

“I’m skipping over much what followed, because I never saw or wanted to
see any of it—but three years afterward there was a boy kid stumbling
and blubbering around the galleries and floors of Luke’s ranch. I never
had no use for kids; but it seems they did. And I’m skipping over much
what followed until one day out to the ranch drives in hacks and
buckboards a lot of Mrs. Summers’s friends from the East—a sister or so
and two or three men. One looked like an uncle to somebody; and one
looked like nothing; and the other one had on corkscrew pants and spoke
in a tone of voice. I never liked a man who spoke in a tone of voice.

“I’m skipping over much what followed; but one afternoon when I rides
up to the ranch house to get some orders about a drove of beeves that
was to be shipped, I hears something like a popgun go off. I waits at
the hitching rack, not wishing to intrude on private affairs. In a
little while Luke comes out and gives some orders to some of his
Mexican hands, and they go and hitch up sundry and divers vehicles; and
mighty soon out comes one of the sisters or so and some of the two or
three men. But two of the two or three men carries between ’em the
corkscrew man who spoke in a tone of voice, and lays him flat down in
one of the wagons. And they all might have been seen wending their way
away.

“‘Bud,’ says Luke to me, ‘I want you to fix up a little and go up to
San Antone with me.’

“‘Let me get on my Mexican spurs,’ says I, ‘and I’m your company.’

“One of the sisters or so seems to have stayed at the ranch with Mrs.
Summers and the kid. We rides to Encinal and catches the International,
and hits San Antone in the morning. After breakfast Luke steers me
straight to the office of a lawyer. They go in a room and talk and then
come out.

“‘Oh, there won’t be any trouble, Mr. Summers,’ says the lawyer. ‘I’ll
acquaint Judge Simmons with the facts to-day; and the matter will be
put through as promptly as possible. Law and order reigns in this state
as swift and sure as any in the country.’

“‘I’ll wait for the decree if it won’t take over half an hour,’ says
Luke.

“‘Tut, tut,’ says the lawyer man. ‘Law must take its course. Come back
day after to-morrow at half-past nine.’

“At that time me and Luke shows up, and the lawyer hands him a folded
document. And Luke writes him out a check.

“On the sidewalk Luke holds up the paper to me and puts a finger the
size of a kitchen door latch on it and says:

“‘Decree of ab-so-lute divorce with cus-to-dy of the child.’

“‘Skipping over much what has happened of which I know nothing,’ says
I, ‘it looks to me like a split. Couldn’t the lawyer man have made it a
strike for you?’

“‘Bud,’ says he, in a pained style, ‘that child is the one thing I have
to live for. _She_ may go; but the boy is mine!—think of it—I have
cus-to-dy of the child.’

“‘All right,’ says I. ‘If it’s the law, let’s abide by it. But I
think,’ says I, ‘that Judge Simmons might have used exemplary clemency,
or whatever is the legal term, in our case.’

“You see, I wasn’t inveigled much into the desirableness of having
infants around a ranch, except the kind that feed themselves and sell
for so much on the hoof when they grow up. But Luke was struck with
that sort of parental foolishness that I never could understand. All
the way riding from the station back to the ranch, he kept pulling that
decree out of his pocket and laying his finger on the back of it and
reading off to me the sum and substance of it. ‘Cus-to-dy of the child,
Bud,’ says he. ‘Don’t forget it—cus-to-dy of the child.’

“But when we hits the ranch we finds our decree of court obviated,
_nolle prossed_, and remanded for trial. Mrs. Summers and the kid was
gone. They tell us that an hour after me and Luke had started for San
Antone she had a team hitched and lit out for the nearest station with
her trunks and the youngster.

“Luke takes out his decree once more and reads off its emoluments.

“‘It ain’t possible, Bud,’ says he, ‘for this to be. It’s contrary to
law and order. It’s wrote as plain as day here—“Cus-to-dy of the
child.”’

“‘There is what you might call a human leaning,’ says I, ‘toward
smashing ’em both—not to mention the child.’

“‘Judge Simmons,’ goes on Luke, ‘is a incorporated officer of the law.
She can’t take the boy away. He belongs to me by statutes passed and
approved by the state of Texas.’

“‘And he’s removed from the jurisdiction of mundane mandamuses,’ says
I, ‘by the unearthly statutes of female partiality. Let us praise the
Lord and be thankful for whatever small mercies—’ I begins; but I see
Luke don’t listen to me. Tired as he was, he calls for a fresh horse
and starts back again for the station.

“He come back two weeks afterward, not saying much.

“‘We can’t get the trail,’ says he; ‘but we’ve done all the
telegraphing that the wires’ll stand, and we’ve got these city rangers
they call detectives on the lookout. In the meantime, Bud,’ says he,
‘we’ll round up them cows on Brush Creek, and wait for the law to take
its course.’”

“And after that we never alluded to allusions, as you might say.

“Skipping over much what happened in the next twelve years, Luke was
made sheriff of Mojada County. He made me his office deputy. Now, don’t
get in your mind no wrong apparitions of a office deputy doing sums in
a book or mashing letters in a cider press. In them days his job was to
watch the back windows so nobody didn’t plug the sheriff in the rear
while he was adding up mileage at his desk in front. And in them days I
had qualifications for the job. And there was law and order in Mojada
County, and schoolbooks, and all the whiskey you wanted, and the
Government built its own battleships instead of collecting nickels from
the school children to do it with. And, as I say, there was law and
order instead of enactments and restrictions such as disfigure our
umpire state to-day. We had our office at Bildad, the county seat, from
which we emerged forth on necessary occasions to soothe whatever
fracases and unrest that might occur in our jurisdiction.

“Skipping over much what happened while me and Luke was sheriff, I want
to give you an idea of how the law was respected in them days. Luke was
what you would call one of the most conscious men in the world. He
never knew much book law, but he had the inner emoluments of justice
and mercy inculcated into his system. If a respectable citizen shot a
Mexican or held up a train and cleaned out the safe in the express car,
and Luke ever got hold of him, he’d give the guilty party such a
reprimand and a cussin’ out that he’d probable never do it again. But
once let somebody steal a horse (unless it was a Spanish pony), or cut
a wire fence, or otherwise impair the peace and indignity of Mojada
County, Luke and me would be on ’em with habeas corpuses and smokeless
powder and all the modern inventions of equity and etiquette.

“We certainly had our county on a basis of lawfulness. I’ve known
persons of Eastern classification with little spotted caps and
buttoned-up shoes to get off the train at Bildad and eat sandwiches at
the railroad station without being shot at or even roped and drug about
by the citizens of the town.

“Luke had his own ideas of legality and justice. He was kind of
training me to succeed him when he went out of office. He was always
looking ahead to the time when he’d quit sheriffing. What he wanted to
do was to build a yellow house with lattice-work under the porch and
have hens scratching in the yard. The one main thing in his mind seemed
to be the yard.

“‘Bud,’ he says to me, ‘by instinct and sentiment I’m a contractor. I
want to be a contractor. That’s what I’ll be when I get out of office.’

“‘What kind of a contractor?’ says I. ‘It sounds like a kind of a
business to me. You ain’t going to haul cement or establish branches or
work on a railroad, are you?’

“‘You don’t understand,’ says Luke. ‘I’m tired of space and horizons
and territory and distances and things like that. What I want is
reasonable contraction. I want a yard with a fence around it that you
can go out and set on after supper and listen to whip-poor-wills,’ says
Luke.

“That’s the kind of a man he was. He was home-like, although he’d had
bad luck in such investments. But he never talked about them times on
the ranch. It seemed like he’d forgotten about it. I wondered how, with
his ideas of yards and chickens and notions of lattice-work, he’d
seemed to have got out of his mind that kid of his that had been taken
away from him, unlawful, in spite of his decree of court. But he wasn’t
a man you could ask about such things as he didn’t refer to in his own
conversation.

“I reckon he’d put all his emotions and ideas into being sheriff. I’ve
read in books about men that was disappointed in these poetic and
fine-haired and high-collared affairs with ladies renouncing truck of
that kind and wrapping themselves up into some occupation like painting
pictures, or herding sheep, or science, or teaching school—something to
make ’em forget. Well, I guess that was the way with Luke. But, as he
couldn’t paint pictures, he took it out in rounding up horse thieves
and in making Mojada County a safe place to sleep in if you was well
armed and not afraid of requisitions or tarantulas.

“One day there passes through Bildad a bunch of these money investors
from the East, and they stopped off there, Bildad being the dinner
station on the I. & G. N. They was just coming back from Mexico looking
after mines and such. There was five of ’em—four solid parties, with
gold watch chains, that would grade up over two hundred pounds on the
hoof, and one kid about seventeen or eighteen.

“This youngster had on one of them cowboy suits such as tenderfoots
bring West with ’em; and you could see he was aching to wing a couple
of Indians or bag a grizzly or two with the little pearl-handled gun he
had buckled around his waist.

“I walked down to the depot to keep an eye on the outfit and see that
they didn’t locate any land or scare the cow ponies hitched in front of
Murchison’s store or act otherwise unseemly. Luke was away after a gang
of cattle thieves down on the Frio, and I always looked after the law
and order when he wasn’t there.

“After dinner this boy comes out of the dining-room while the train was
waiting, and prances up and down the platform ready to shoot all
antelope, lions, or private citizens that might endeavour to molest or
come too near him. He was a good-looking kid; only he was like all them
tenderfoots—he didn’t know a law-and-order town when he saw it.

“By and by along comes Pedro Johnson, the proprietor of the Crystal
Palace _chili-con-carne_ stand in Bildad. Pedro was a man who liked to
amuse himself; so he kind of herd rides this youngster, laughing at
him, tickled to death. I was too far away to hear, but the kid seems to
mention some remarks to Pedro, and Pedro goes up and slaps him about
nine feet away, and laughs harder than ever. And then the boy gets up
quicker than he fell and jerks out his little pearl-handle, and—bing!
bing! bing! Pedro gets it three times in special and treasured portions
of his carcass. I saw the dust fly off his clothes every time the
bullets hit. Sometimes them little thirty-twos cause worry at close
range.

“The engine bell was ringing, and the train starting off slow. I goes
up to the kid and places him under arrest, and takes away his gun. But
the first thing I knew that _caballard_ of capitalists makes a break
for the train. One of ’em hesitates in front of me for a second, and
kind of smiles and shoves his hand up against my chin, and I sort of
laid down on the platform and took a nap. I never was afraid of guns;
but I don’t want any person except a barber to take liberties like that
with my face again. When I woke up, the whole outfit—train, boy, and
all—was gone. I asked about Pedro, and they told me the doctor said he
would recover provided his wounds didn’t turn out to be fatal.

“When Luke got back three days later, and I told him about it, he was
mad all over.

“‘Why’n’t you telegraph to San Antone,’ he asks, ‘and have the bunch
arrested there?’

“‘Oh, well,’ says I, ‘I always did admire telegraphy; but astronomy was
what I had took up just then.’ That capitalist sure knew how to
gesticulate with his hands.

“Luke got madder and madder. He investigates and finds in the depot a
card one of the men had dropped that gives the address of some _hombre_
called Scudder in New York City.

“‘Bud,’ says Luke, ‘I’m going after that bunch. I’m going there and get
the man or boy, as you say he was, and bring him back. I’m sheriff of
Mojada County, and I shall keep law and order in its precincts while
I’m able to draw a gun. And I want you to go with me. No Eastern Yankee
can shoot up a respectable and well-known citizen of Bildad, ’specially
with a thirty-two calibre, and escape the law. Pedro Johnson,’ says
Luke, ‘is one of our most prominent citizens and business men. I’ll
appoint Sam Bell acting sheriff with penitentiary powers while I’m
away, and you and me will take the six forty-five northbound to-morrow
evening and follow up this trail.’

“‘I’m your company,’ says I. ‘I never see this New York, but I’d like
to. But, Luke,’ says I, ‘don’t you have to have a dispensation or a
habeas corpus or something from the state, when you reach out that far
for rich men and malefactors?’

“‘Did I have a requisition,’ says Luke, ‘when I went over into the
Brazos bottoms and brought back Bill Grimes and two more for holding up
the International? Did me and you have a search warrant or a posse
comitatus when we rounded up them six Mexican cow thieves down in
Hidalgo? It’s my business to keep order in Mojada County.’

“‘And it’s my business as office deputy,’ says I, ‘to see that business
is carried on according to law. Between us both we ought to keep things
pretty well cleaned up.’

“So, the next day, Luke packs a blanket and some collars and his
mileage book in a haversack, and him and me hits the breeze for New
York. It was a powerful long ride. The seats in the cars was too short
for six-footers like us to sleep comfortable on; and the conductor had
to keep us from getting off at every town that had five-story houses in
it. But we got there finally; and we seemed to see right away that he
was right about it.

“‘Luke,’ says I, ‘as office deputy and from a law standpoint, it don’t
look to me like this place is properly and legally in the jurisdiction
of Mojada County, Texas.’

“‘From the standpoint of order,’ says he, ‘it’s amenable to answer for
its sins to the properly appointed authorities from Bildad to
Jerusalem.’

“‘Amen,’ says I. ‘But let’s turn our trick sudden, and ride. I don’t
like the looks of this place.’

“‘Think of Pedro Johnson,’ says Luke, ‘a friend of mine and yours shot
down by one of these gilded abolitionists at his very door!’

“‘It was at the door of the freight depot,’ says I. ‘But the law will
not be balked at a quibble like that.’

“We put up at one of them big hotels on Broadway. The next morning I
goes down about two miles of stairsteps to the bottom and hunts for
Luke. It ain’t no use. It looks like San Jacinto day in San Antone.
There’s a thousand folks milling around in a kind of a roofed-over
plaza with marble pavements and trees growing right out of ’em, and I
see no more chance of finding Luke than if we was hunting each other in
the big pear flat down below Old Fort Ewell. But soon Luke and me runs
together in one of the turns of them marble alleys.

“‘It ain’t no use, Bud,’ says he. ‘I can’t find no place to eat at.
I’ve been looking for restaurant signs and smelling for ham all over
the camp. But I’m used to going hungry when I have to. Now,’ says he,
‘I’m going out and get a hack and ride down to the address on this
Scudder card. You stay here and try to hustle some grub. But I doubt if
you’ll find it. I wish we’d brought along some cornmeal and bacon and
beans. I’ll be back when I see this Scudder, if the trail ain’t wiped
out.’

“So I starts foraging for breakfast. For the honour of old Mojada
County I didn’t want to seem green to them abolitionists, so every time
I turned a corner in them marble halls I went up to the first desk or
counter I see and looks around for grub. If I didn’t see what I wanted
I asked for something else. In about half an hour I had a dozen cigars,
five story magazines, and seven or eight railroad time-tables in my
pockets, and never a smell of coffee or bacon to point out the trail.

“Once a lady sitting at a table and playing a game kind of like pushpin
told me to go into a closet that she called Number 3. I went in and
shut the door, and the blamed thing lit itself up. I set down on a
stool before a shelf and waited. Thinks I, ‘This is a private
dining-room.’ But no waiter never came. When I got to sweating good and
hard, I goes out again.

“‘Did you get what you wanted?’ says she.

“‘No, ma’am,’ says I. ‘Not a bite.’

“‘Then there’s no charge,’ says she.

“‘Thanky, ma’am,’ says I, and I takes up the trail again.

“By and by I thinks I’ll shed etiquette; and I picks up one of them
boys with blue clothes and yellow buttons in front, and he leads me to
what he calls the caffay breakfast room. And the first thing I lays my
eyes on when I go in is that boy that had shot Pedro Johnson. He was
setting all alone at a little table, hitting a egg with a spoon like he
was afraid he’d break it.

“I takes the chair across the table from him; and he looks insulted and
makes a move like he was going to get up.

“‘Keep still, son,’ says I. ‘You’re apprehended, arrested, and in
charge of the Texas authorities. Go on and hammer that egg some more if
it’s the inside of it you want. Now, what did you shoot Mr. Johnson, of
Bildad, for?’

“And may I ask who you are?’ says he.

“‘You may,’ says I. ‘Go ahead.’

“‘I suppose you’re on,’ says this kid, without batting his eyes. ‘But
what are you eating? Here, waiter!’ he calls out, raising his finger.
‘Take this gentleman’s order.

“‘A beefsteak,’ says I, ‘and some fried eggs and a can of peaches and a
quart of coffee will about suffice.’

“We talk awhile about the sundries of life and then he says:

“‘What are you going to do about that shooting? I had a right to shoot
that man,’ says he. ‘He called me names that I couldn’t overlook, and
then he struck me. He carried a gun, too. What else could I do?’

“‘We’ll have to take you back to Texas,’ says I.

“‘I’d like to go back,’ says the boy, with a kind of a grin—‘if it
wasn’t on an occasion of this kind. It’s the life I like. I’ve always
wanted to ride and shoot and live in the open air ever since I can
remember.’

“‘Who was this gang of stout parties you took this trip with?’ I asks.

“‘My stepfather,’ says he, ‘and some business partners of his in some
Mexican mining and land schemes.’

“‘I saw you shoot Pedro Johnson,’ says I, ‘and I took that little
popgun away from you that you did it with. And when I did so I noticed
three or four little scars in a row over your right eyebrow. You’ve
been in rookus before, haven’t you?’

“‘I’ve had these scars ever since I can remember,’ says he. ‘I don’t
know how they came there.’

“‘Was you ever in Texas before?’ says I.

“‘Not that I remember of,’ says he. ‘But I thought I had when we struck
the prairie country. But I guess I hadn’t.’

“‘Have you got a mother?’ I asks.

“‘She died five years ago,’ says he.

“Skipping over the most of what followed—when Luke came back I turned
the kid over to him. He had seen Scudder and told him what he wanted;
and it seems that Scudder got active with one of these telephones as
soon as he left. For in about an hour afterward there comes to our
hotel some of these city rangers in everyday clothes that they call
detectives, and marches the whole outfit of us to what they call a
magistrate’s court. They accuse Luke of attempted kidnapping, and ask
him what he has to say.

“‘This snipe,’ says Luke to the judge, ‘shot and wilfully punctured
with malice and forethought one of the most respected and prominent
citizens of the town of Bildad, Texas, Your Honor. And in so doing laid
himself liable to the penitence of law and order. And I hereby make
claim and demand restitution of the State of New York City for the said
alleged criminal; and I know he done it.’

“‘Have you the usual and necessary requisition papers from the governor
of your state?’ asks the judge.

“‘My usual papers,’ says Luke, ‘was taken away from me at the hotel by
these gentlemen who represent law and order in your city. They was two
Colt’s .45’s that I’ve packed for nine years; and if I don’t get ’em
back, there’ll be more trouble. You can ask anybody in Mojada County
about Luke Summers. I don’t usually need any other kind of papers for
what I do.’

“I see the judge looks mad, so I steps up and says:

“‘Your Honor, the aforesaid defendant, Mr. Luke Summers, sheriff of
Mojada County, Texas, is as fine a man as ever threw a rope or upheld
the statutes and codicils of the greatest state in the Union. But he—’

“The judge hits his table with a wooden hammer and asks who I am.

“Bud Oakley,’ says I. ‘Office deputy of the sheriff’s office of Mojada
County, Texas. Representing,’ says I, ‘the Law. Luke Summers,’ I goes
on, ‘represents Order. And if Your Honor will give me about ten minutes
in private talk, I’ll explain the whole thing to you, and show you the
equitable and legal requisition papers which I carry in my pocket.’

“The judge kind of half smiles and says he will talk with me in his
private room. In there I put the whole thing up to him in such language
as I had, and when we goes outside, he announces the verdict that the
young man is delivered into the hands of the Texas authorities; and
calls the next case.

“Skipping over much of what happened on the way back, I’ll tell you how
the thing wound up in Bildad.

“When we got the prisoner in the sheriff’s office, I says to Luke:

“‘You, remember that kid of yours—that two-year old that they stole
away from you when the bust-up come?’

“Luke looks black and angry. He’d never let anybody talk to him about
that business, and he never mentioned it himself.

“‘Toe the mark,’ says I. ‘Do you remember when he was toddling around
on the porch and fell down on a pair of Mexican spurs and cut four
little holes over his right eye? Look at the prisoner,’ says I, ‘look
at his nose and the shape of his head and—why, you old fool, don’t you
know your own son?—I knew him,’ says I, ‘when he perforated Mr. Johnson
at the depot.’

“Luke comes over to me shaking all over. I never saw him lose his nerve
before.

“‘Bud,’ says he. ‘I’ve never had that boy out of my mind one day or one
night since he was took away. But I never let on. But can we hold him?—
Can we make him stay?— I’ll make the best man of him that ever put his
foot in a stirrup. Wait a minute,’ says he, all excited and out of his
mind—‘I’ve got some-thing here in my desk—I reckon it’ll hold legal
yet—I’ve looked at it a thousand times—“Cus-to-dy of the child,”’ says
Luke—‘“Cus-to-dy of the child.” We can hold him on that, can’t we?
Le’me see if I can find that decree.’

“Luke begins to tear his desk to pieces.

“‘Hold on,’ says I. ‘You are Order and I’m Law. You needn’t look for
that paper, Luke. It ain’t a decree any more. It’s requisition papers.
It’s on file in that Magistrate’s office in New York. I took it along
when we went, because I was office deputy and knew the law.’

“‘I’ve got him back,’ says Luke. ‘He’s mine again. I never thought—’

“‘Wait a minute,’ says I. ‘We’ve got to have law and order. You and me
have got to preserve ’em both in Mojada County according to our oath
and conscience. The kid shot Pedro Johnson, one of Bildad’s most
prominent and—’

“‘Oh, hell!’ says Luke. ‘That don’t amount to anything. That fellow was
half Mexican, anyhow.’”




XXII.
TRANSFORMATION OF MARTIN BURNEY


In behalf of Sir Walter’s soothing plant let us look into the case of
Martin Burney.

They were constructing the Speedway along the west bank of the Harlem
River. The grub-boat of Dennis Corrigan, sub-contractor, was moored to
a tree on the bank. Twenty-two men belonging to the little green island
toiled there at the sinew-cracking labour. One among them, who wrought
in the kitchen of the grub-boat was of the race of the Goths. Over them
all stood the exorbitant Corrigan, harrying them like the captain of a
galley crew. He paid them so little that most of the gang, work as they
might, earned little more than food and tobacco; many of them were in
debt to him. Corrigan boarded them all in the grub-boat, and gave them
good grub, for he got it back in work.

Martin Burney was furthest behind of all. He was a little man, all
muscles and hands and feet, with a gray-red, stubbly beard. He was too
light for the work, which would have glutted the capacity of a steam
shovel.

The work was hard. Besides that, the banks of the river were humming
with mosquitoes. As a child in a dark room fixes his regard on the pale
light of a comforting window, these toilers watched the sun that
brought around the one hour of the day that tasted less bitter. After
the sundown supper they would huddle together on the river bank, and
send the mosquitoes whining and eddying back from the malignant puffs
of twenty-three reeking pipes. Thus socially banded against the foe,
they wrenched out of the hour a few well-smoked drops from the cup of
joy.

Each week Burney grew deeper in debt. Corrigan kept a small stock of
goods on the boat, which he sold to the men at prices that brought him
no loss. Burney was a good customer at the tobacco counter. One sack
when he went to work in the morning and one when he came in at night,
so much was his account swelled daily. Burney was something of a
smoker. Yet it was not true that he ate his meals with a pipe in his
mouth, which had been said of him. The little man was not discontented.
He had plenty to eat, plenty of tobacco, and a tyrant to curse; so why
should not he, an Irishman, be well satisfied?

One morning as he was starting with the others for work he stopped at
the pine counter for his usual sack of tobacco.

“There’s no more for ye,” said Corrigan. “Your account’s closed. Ye are
a losing investment. No, not even tobaccy, my son. No more tobaccy on
account. If ye want to work on and eat, do so, but the smoke of ye has
all ascended. ’Tis my advice that ye hunt a new job.”

“I have no tobaccy to smoke in my pipe this day, Mr. Corrigan,” said
Burney, not quite understanding that such a thing could happen to him.

“Earn it,” said Corrigan, “and then buy it.”

Burney stayed on. He knew of no other job. At first he did not realize
that tobacco had got to be his father and mother, his confessor and
sweetheart, and wife and child.

For three days he managed to fill his pipe from the other men’s sacks,
and then they shut him off, one and all. They told him, rough but
friendly, that of all things in the world tobacco must be quickest
forthcoming to a fellow-man desiring it, but that beyond the immediate
temporary need requisition upon the store of a comrade is pressed with
great danger to friendship.

Then the blackness of the pit arose and filled the heart of Burney.
Sucking the corpse of his deceased dudheen, he staggered through his
duties with his barrowful of stones and dirt, feeling for the first
time that the curse of Adam was upon him. Other men bereft of a
pleasure might have recourse to other delights, but Burney had only two
comforts in life. One was his pipe, the other was an ecstatic hope that
there would be no Speedways to build on the other side of Jordan.

At meal times he would let the other men go first into the grub-boat,
and then he would go down on his hands and knees, grovelling fiercely
upon the ground where they had been sitting, trying to find some stray
crumbs of tobacco. Once he sneaked down the river bank and filled his
pipe with dead willow leaves. At the first whiff of the smoke he spat
in the direction of the boat and put the finest curse he knew on
Corrigan—one that began with the first Corrigans born on earth and
ended with the Corrigans that shall hear the trumpet of Gabriel blow.
He began to hate Corrigan with all his shaking nerves and soul. Even
murder occurred to him in a vague sort of way. Five days he went
without the taste of tobacco—he who had smoked all day and thought the
night misspent in which he had not awakened for a pipeful or two under
the bedclothes.

One day a man stopped at the boat to say that there was work to be had
in the Bronx Park, where a large number of labourers were required in
making some improvements.

After dinner Burney walked thirty yards down the river bank away from
the maddening smell of the others’ pipes. He sat down upon a stone. He
was thinking he would set out for the Bronx. At least he could earn
tobacco there. What if the books did say he owed Corrigan? Any man’s
work was worth his keep. But then he hated to go without getting even
with the hard-hearted screw who had put his pipe out. Was there any way
to do it?

Softly stepping among the clods came Tony, he of the race of Goths, who
worked in the kitchen. He grinned at Burney’s elbow, and that unhappy
man, full of race animosity and holding urbanity in contempt, growled
at him: “What d’ye want, ye—Dago?”

Tony also contained a grievance—and a plot. He, too, was a Corrigan
hater, and had been primed to see it in others.

“How you like-a Mr. Corrigan?” he asked. “You think-a him a nice-a
man?”

“To hell with ’m,” he said. “May his liver turn to water, and the bones
of him crack in the cold of his heart. May dog fennel grow upon his
ancestors’ graves, and the grandsons of his children be born without
eyes. May whiskey turn to clabber in his mouth, and every time he
sneezes may he blister the soles of his feet. And the smoke of his
pipe—may it make his eyes water, and the drops fall on the grass that
his cows eat and poison the butter that he spreads on his bread.”

Though Tony remained a stranger to the beauties of this imagery, he
gathered from it the conviction that it was sufficiently anti-Corrigan
in its tendency. So, with the confidence of a fellow-conspirator, he
sat by Burney upon the stone and unfolded his plot.

It was very simple in design. Every day after dinner it was Corrigan’s
habit to sleep for an hour in his bunk. At such times it was the duty
of the cook and his helper, Tony, to leave the boat so that no noise
might disturb the autocrat. The cook always spent this hour in walking
exercise. Tony’s plan was this: After Corrigan should be asleep he
(Tony) and Burney would cut the mooring ropes that held the boat to the
shore. Tony lacked the nerve to do the deed alone. Then the awkward
boat would swing out into a swift current and surely overturn against a
rock there was below.

“Come on and do it,” said Burney. “If the back of ye aches from the
lick he gave ye as the pit of me stomach does for the taste of a bit of
smoke, we can’t cut the ropes too quick.”

“All a-right,” said Tony. “But better wait ’bout-a ten minute more.
Give-a Corrigan plenty time get good-a sleep.”

They waited, sitting upon the stone. The rest of the men were at work
out of sight around a bend in the road. Everything would have gone
well—except, perhaps, with Corrigan, had not Tony been moved to
decorate the plot with its conventional accompaniment. He was of
dramatic blood, and perhaps he intuitively divined the appendage to
villainous machinations as prescribed by the stage. He pulled from his
shirt bosom a long, black, beautiful, venomous cigar, and handed it to
Burney.

“You like-a smoke while we wait?” he asked.

Burney clutched it and snapped off the end as a terrier bites at a rat.
He laid it to his lips like a long-lost sweetheart. When the smoke
began to draw he gave a long, deep sigh, and the bristles of his
gray-red moustache curled down over the cigar like the talons of an
eagle. Slowly the red faded from the whites of his eyes. He fixed his
gaze dreamily upon the hills across the river. The minutes came and
went.

“’Bout time to go now,” said Tony. “That damn-a Corrigan he be in the
reever very quick.”

Burney started out of his trance with a grunt. He turned his head and
gazed with a surprised and pained severity at his accomplice. He took
the cigar partly from his mouth, but sucked it back again immediately,
chewed it lovingly once or twice, and spoke, in virulent puffs, from
the corner of his mouth:

“What is it, ye yaller haythen? Would ye lay contrivances against the
enlightened races of the earth, ye instigator of illegal crimes? Would
ye seek to persuade Martin Burney into the dirty tricks of an indecent
Dago? Would ye be for murderin’ your benefactor, the good man that
gives ye food and work? Take that, ye punkin-coloured assassin!”

The torrent of Burney’s indignation carried with it bodily assault. The
toe of his shoe sent the would-be cutter of ropes tumbling from his
seat.

Tony arose and fled. His vendetta he again relegated to the files of
things that might have been. Beyond the boat he fled and away-away; he
was afraid to remain.

Burney, with expanded chest, watched his late co-plotter disappear.
Then he, too, departed, setting his face in the direction of the Bronx.

In his wake was a rank and pernicious trail of noisome smoke that
brought peace to his heart and drove the birds from the roadside into
the deepest thickets.




XXIII.
THE CALIPH AND THE CAD


Surely there is no pastime more diverting than that of mingling,
incognito, with persons of wealth and station. Where else but in those
circles can one see life in its primitive, crude state unhampered by
the conventions that bind the dwellers in a lower sphere?

There was a certain Caliph of Bagdad who was accustomed to go down
among the poor and lowly for the solace obtained from the relation of
their tales and histories. Is it not strange that the humble and
poverty-stricken have not availed themselves of the pleasure they might
glean by donning diamonds and silks and playing Caliph among the haunts
of the upper world?

There was one who saw the possibilities of thus turning the tables on
Haroun al Raschid. His name was Corny Brannigan, and he was a truck
driver for a Canal Street importing firm. And if you read further you
will learn how he turned upper Broadway into Bagdad and learned
something about himself that he did not know before.

Many people would have called Corny a snob—preferably by means of a
telephone. His chief interest in life, his chosen amusement, and his
sole diversion after working hours, was to place himself in
juxtaposition—since he could not hope to mingle—with people of fashion
and means.

Every evening after Corny had put up his team and dined at a
lunch-counter that made immediateness a specialty, he would clothe
himself in evening raiment as correct as any you will see in the palm
rooms. Then he would betake himself to that ravishing, radiant roadway
devoted to Thespis, Thais, and Bacchus.

For a time he would stroll about the lobbies of the best hotels, his
soul steeped in blissful content. Beautiful women, cooing like doves,
but feathered like birds of Paradise, flicked him with their robes as
they passed. Courtly gentlemen attended them, gallant and assiduous.
And Corny’s heart within him swelled like Sir Lancelot’s, for the
mirror spoke to him as he passed and said: “Corny, lad, there’s not a
guy among ’em that looks a bit the sweller than yerself. And you
drivin’ of a truck and them swearin’ off their taxes and playin’ the
red in art galleries with the best in the land!”

And the mirrors spake the truth. Mr. Corny Brannigan had acquired the
outward polish, if nothing more. Long and keen observation of polite
society had gained for him its manner, its genteel air, and—most
difficult of acquirement—its repose and ease.

Now and then in the hotels Corny had managed conversation and temporary
acquaintance with substantial, if not distinguished, guests. With many
of these he had exchanged cards, and the ones he received he carefully
treasured for his own use later. Leaving the hotel lobbies, Corny would
stroll leisurely about, lingering at the theatre entrance, dropping
into the fashionable restaurants as if seeking some friend. He rarely
patronized any of these places; he was no bee come to suck honey, but a
butterfly flashing his wings among the flowers whose calyces held no
sweets for him. His wages were not large enough to furnish him with
more than the outside garb of the gentleman. To have been one of the
beings he so cunningly imitated, Corny Brannigan would have given his
right hand.

One night Corny had an adventure. After absorbing the delights of an
hour’s lounging in the principal hotels along Broadway, he passed up
into the stronghold of Thespis. Cab drivers hailed him as a likely
fare, to his prideful content. Languishing eyes were turned upon him as
a hopeful source of lobsters and the delectable, ascendant globules of
effervescence. These overtures and unconscious compliments Corny
swallowed as manna, and hoped Bill, the off horse, would be less lame
in the left forefoot in the morning.

Beneath a cluster of milky globes of electric light Corny paused to
admire the sheen of his low-cut patent leather shoes. The building
occupying the angle was a pretentious _café_. Out of this came a
couple, a lady in a white, cobwebby evening gown, with a lace wrap like
a wreath of mist thrown over it, and a man, tall, faultless,
assured—too assured. They moved to the edge of the sidewalk and halted.
Corny’s eye, ever alert for “pointers” in “swell” behaviour, took them
in with a sidelong glance.

“The carriage is not here,” said the lady. “You ordered it to wait?”

“I ordered it for nine-thirty,” said the man. “It should be here now.”

A familiar note in the lady’s voice drew a more especial attention from
Corny. It was pitched in a key well known to him. The soft electric
shone upon her face. Sisters of sorrow have no quarters fixed for them.
In the index to the book of breaking hearts you will find that Broadway
follows very soon after the Bowery. This lady’s face was sad, and her
voice was attuned with it. They waited, as if for the carriage. Corny
waited too, for it was out of doors, and he was never tired of
accumulating and profiting by knowledge of gentlemanly conduct.

“Jack,” said the lady, “don’t be angry. I’ve done everything I could to
please you this evening. Why do you act so?”

“Oh, you’re an angel,” said the man. “Depend upon woman to throw the
blame upon a man.”

“I’m not blaming you. I’m only trying to make you happy.”

“You go about it in a very peculiar way.”

“You have been cross with me all the evening without any cause.”

“Oh, there isn’t any cause except—you make me tired.”

Corny took out his card case and looked over his collection. He
selected one that read: “Mr. R. Lionel Whyte-Melville, Bloomsbury
Square, London.” This card he had inveigled from a tourist at the King
Edward Hotel. Corny stepped up to the man and presented it with a
correctly formal air.

“May I ask why I am selected for the honour?” asked the lady’s escort.

Now, Mr. Corny Brannigan had a very wise habit of saying little during
his imitations of the Caliph of Bagdad. The advice of Lord
Chesterfield: “Wear a black coat and hold your tongue,” he believed in
without having heard. But now speech was demanded and required of him.

“No gent,” said Corny, “would talk to a lady like you done. Fie upon
you, Willie! Even if she happens to be your wife you ought to have more
respect for your clothes than to chin her back that way. Maybe it ain’t
my butt-in, but it goes, anyhow—you strike me as bein’ a whole lot to
the wrong.”

The lady’s escort indulged in more elegantly expressed but fetching
repartee. Corny, eschewing his truck driver’s vocabulary, retorted as
nearly as he could in polite phrases. Then diplomatic relations were
severed; there was a brief but lively set-to with other than oral
weapons, from which Corny came forth easily victor.

A carriage dashed up, driven by a tardy and solicitous coachman.

“Will you kindly open the door for me?” asked the lady. Corny assisted
her to enter, and took off his hat. The escort was beginning to
scramble up from the sidewalk.

“I beg your pardon, ma’am,” said Corny, “if he’s your man.”

“He’s no man of mine,” said the lady. “Perhaps he—but there’s no chance
of his being now. Drive home, Michael. If you care to take this—with my
thanks.”

Three red roses were thrust out through the carriage window into
Corny’s hand. He took them, and the hand for an instant; and then the
carriage sped away.

Corny gathered his foe’s hat and began to brush the dust from his
clothes.

“Come along,” said Corny, taking the other man by the arm.

His late opponent was yet a little dazed by the hard knocks he had
received. Corny led him carefully into a saloon three doors away.

“The drinks for us,” said Corny, “me and my friend.”

“You’re a queer feller,” said the lady’s late escort—“lick a man and
then want to set ’em up.”

“You’re my best friend,” said Corny exultantly. “You don’t understand?
Well, listen. You just put me wise to somethin’. I been playin’ gent a
long time, thinkin’ it was just the glad rags I had and nothin’ else.
Say—you’re a swell, ain’t you? Well, you trot in that class, I guess. I
don’t; but I found out one thing—I’m a gentleman, by—and I know it now.
What’ll you have to drink?”




XXIV.
THE DIAMOND OF KALI


The original news item concerning the diamond of the goddess Kali was
handed in to the city editor. He smiled and held it for a moment above
the wastebasket. Then he laid it back on his desk and said: “Try the
Sunday people; they might work something out of it.”

The Sunday editor glanced the item over and said: “H’m!” Afterward he
sent for a reporter and expanded his comment.

“You might see General Ludlow,” he said, “and make a story out of this
if you can. Diamond stories are a drug; but this one is big enough to
be found by a scrubwoman wrapped up in a piece of newspaper and tucked
under the corner of the hall linoleum. Find out first if the General
has a daughter who intends to go on the stage. If not, you can go ahead
with the story. Run cuts of the Kohinoor and J. P. Morgan’s collection,
and work in pictures of the Kimberley mines and Barney Barnato. Fill in
with a tabulated comparison of the values of diamonds, radium, and veal
cutlets since the meat strike; and let it run to a half page.”

On the following day the reporter turned in his story. The Sunday
editor let his eye sprint along its lines. “H’m!” he said again. This
time the copy went into the waste-basket with scarcely a flutter.

The reporter stiffened a little around the lips; but he was whistling
softly and contentedly between his teeth when I went over to talk with
him about it an hour later.

“I don’t blame the ‘old man’,” said he, magnanimously, “for cutting it
out. It did sound like funny business; but it happened exactly as I
wrote it. Say, why don’t you fish that story out of the w.-b. and use
it? Seems to me it’s as good as the tommyrot you write.”

I accepted the tip, and if you read further you will learn the facts
about the diamond of the goddess Kali as vouched for by one of the most
reliable reporters on the staff.

Gen. Marcellus B. Ludlow lives in one of those decaying but venerated
old red-brick mansions in the West Twenties. The General is a member of
an old New York family that does not advertise. He is a globe-trotter
by birth, a gentleman by predilection, a millionaire by the mercy of
Heaven, and a connoisseur of precious stones by occupation.

The reporter was admitted promptly when he made himself known at the
General’s residence at about eight thirty on the evening that he
received the assignment. In the magnificent library he was greeted by
the distinguished traveller and connoisseur, a tall, erect gentleman in
the early fifties, with a nearly white moustache, and a bearing so
soldierly that one perceived in him scarcely a trace of the National
Guardsman. His weather-beaten countenance lit up with a charming smile
of interest when the reporter made known his errand.

“Ah, you have heard of my latest find. I shall be glad to show you what
I conceive to be one of the six most valuable blue diamonds in
existence.”

The General opened a small safe in a corner of the library and brought
forth a plush-covered box. Opening this, he exposed to the reporter’s
bewildered gaze a huge and brilliant diamond—nearly as large as a
hailstone.

“This stone,” said the General, “is something more than a mere jewel.
It once formed the central eye of the three-eyed goddess Kali, who is
worshipped by one of the fiercest and most fanatical tribes of India.
If you will arrange yourself comfortably I will give you a brief
history of it for your paper.”

General Ludlow brought a decanter of whiskey and glasses from a
cabinet, and set a comfortable armchair for the lucky scribe.

“The Phansigars, or Thugs, of India,” began the General, “are the most
dangerous and dreaded of the tribes of North India. They are extremists
in religion, and worship the horrid goddess Kali in the form of images.
Their rites are interesting and bloody. The robbing and murdering of
travellers are taught as a worthy and obligatory deed by their strange
religious code. Their worship of the three-eyed goddess Kali is
conducted so secretly that no traveller has ever heretofore had the
honour of witnessing the ceremonies. That distinction was reserved for
myself.

“While at Sakaranpur, between Delhi and Khelat, I used to explore the
jungle in every direction in the hope of learning something new about
these mysterious Phansigars.

“One evening at twilight I was making my way through a teakwood forest,
when I came upon a deep circular depression in an open space, in the
centre of which was a rude stone temple. I was sure that this was one
of the temples of the Thugs, so I concealed myself in the undergrowth
to watch.

“When the moon rose the depression in the clearing was suddenly filled
with hundreds of shadowy, swiftly gliding forms. Then a door opened in
the temple, exposing a brightly illuminated image of the goddess Kali,
before which a white-robed priest began a barbarous incantation, while
the tribe of worshippers prostrated themselves upon the earth.

“But what interested me most was the central eye of the huge wooden
idol. I could see by its flashing brilliancy that it was an immense
diamond of the purest water.

“After the rites were concluded the Thugs slipped away into the forest
as silently as they had come. The priest stood for a few minutes in the
door of the temple enjoying the cool of the night before closing his
rather warm quarters. Suddenly a dark, lithe shadow slipped down into
the hollow, leaped upon the priest; and struck him down with a
glittering knife. Then the murderer sprang at the image of the goddess
like a cat and pried out the glowing central eye of Kali with his
weapon. Straight toward me he ran with his royal prize. When he was
within two paces I rose to my feet and struck him with all my force
between the eyes. He rolled over senseless and the magnificent jewel
fell from his hand. That is the splendid blue diamond you have just
seen—a stone worthy of a monarch’s crown.”

“That’s a corking story,” said the reporter. “That decanter is exactly
like the one that John W. Gates always sets out during an interview.”

“Pardon me,” said General Ludlow, “for forgetting hospitality in the
excitement of my narrative. Help yourself.”

“Here’s looking at you,” said the reporter.

“What I am afraid of now,” said the General, lowering his voice, “is
that I may be robbed of the diamond. The jewel that formed an eye of
their goddess is their most sacred symbol. Somehow the tribe suspected
me of having it; and members of the band have followed me half around
the earth. They are the most cunning and cruel fanatics in the world,
and their religious vows would compel them to assassinate the
unbeliever who has desecrated their sacred treasure.

“Once in Lucknow three of their agents, disguised as servants in a
hotel, endeavoured to strangle me with a twisted cloth. Again, in
London, two Thugs, made up as street musicians, climbed into my window
at night and attacked me. They have even tracked me to this country. My
life is never safe. A month ago, while I was at a hotel in the
Berkshires, three of them sprang upon me from the roadside weeds. I
saved myself then by my knowledge of their customs.”

“How was that, General?” asked the reporter.

“There was a cow grazing near by,” said General Ludlow, “a gentle
Jersey cow. I ran to her side and stood. The three Thugs ceased their
attack, knelt and struck the ground thrice with their foreheads. Then,
after many respectful salaams, they departed.”

“Afraid the cow would hook?” asked the reporter.

“No; the cow is a sacred animal to the Phansigars. Next to their
goddess they worship the cow. They have never been known to commit any
deed of violence in the presence of the animal they reverence.”

“It’s a mighty interesting story,” said the reporter. “If you don’t
mind I’ll take another drink, and then a few notes.”

“I will join you,” said General Ludlow, with a courteous wave of his
hand.

“If I were you,” advised the reporter, “I’d take that sparkler to
Texas. Get on a cow ranch there, and the Pharisees—”

“Phansigars,” corrected the General.

“Oh, yes; the fancy guys would run up against a long horn every time
they made a break.”

General Ludlow closed the diamond case and thrust it into his bosom.

“The spies of the tribe have found me out in New York,” he said,
straightening his tall figure. “I’m familiar with the East Indian cast
of countenance, and I know that my every movement is watched. They will
undoubtedly attempt to rob and murder me here.”

“Here?” exclaimed the reporter, seizing the decanter and pouring out a
liberal amount of its contents.

“At any moment,” said the General. “But as a soldier and a connoisseur
I shall sell my life and my diamond as dearly as I can.”

At this point of the reporter’s story there is a certain vagueness, but
it can be gathered that there was a loud crashing noise at the rear of
the house they were in. General Ludlow buttoned his coat closely and
sprang for the door. But the reporter clutched him firmly with one
hand, while he held the decanter with the other.

“Tell me before we fly,” he urged, in a voice thick with some inward
turmoil, “do any of your daughters contemplate going on the stage?”

“I have no daughters—fly for your life—the Phansigars are upon us!”
cried the General.

The two men dashed out of the front door of the house.

The hour was late. As their feet struck the side-walk strange men of
dark and forbidding appearance seemed to rise up out of the earth and
encompass them. One with Asiatic features pressed close to the General
and droned in a terrible voice:

“Buy cast clo’!”

Another, dark-whiskered and sinister, sped lithely to his side and
began in a whining voice:

“Say, mister, have yer got a dime fer a poor feller what—”

They hurried on, but only into the arms of a black-eyed, dusky-browed
being, who held out his hat under their noses, while a confederate of
Oriental hue turned the handle of a street organ near by.

Twenty steps farther on General Ludlow and the reporter found
themselves in the midst of half a dozen villainous-looking men with
high-turned coat collars and faces bristling with unshaven beards.

“Run for it!” hissed the General. “They have discovered the possessor
of the diamond of the goddess Kali.”

The two men took to their heels. The avengers of the goddess pursued.

“Oh, Lordy!” groaned the reporter, “there isn’t a cow this side of
Brooklyn. We’re lost!”

When near the corner they both fell over an iron object that rose from
the sidewalk close to the gutter. Clinging to it desperately, they
awaited their fate.

“If I only had a cow!” moaned the reporter—“or another nip from that
decanter, General!”

As soon as the pursuers observed where their victims had found refuge
they suddenly fell back and retreated to a considerable distance.

“They are waiting for reinforcements in order to attack us,” said
General Ludlow.

But the reporter emitted a ringing laugh, and hurled his hat
triumphantly into the air.

“Guess again,” he shouted, and leaned heavily upon the iron object.
“Your old fancy guys or thugs, whatever you call ’em, are up to date.
Dear General, this is a pump we’ve stranded upon—same as a cow in New
York (hic!) see? Thas’h why the ’nfuriated smoked guys don’t attack
us—see? Sacred an’mal, the pump in N’ York, my dear General!”

But further down in the shadows of Twenty-eighth Street the marauders
were holding a parley.

“Come on, Reddy,” said one. “Let’s go frisk the old ’un. He’s been
showin’ a sparkler as big as a hen egg all around Eighth Avenue for two
weeks past.”

“Not on your silhouette,” decided Reddy. “You see ’em rallyin’ round
The Pump? They’re friends of Bill’s. Bill won’t stand for nothin’ of
this kind in his district since he got that bid to Esopus.”

This exhausts the facts concerning the Kali diamond. But it is deemed
not inconsequent to close with the following brief (paid) item that
appeared two days later in a morning paper.

“It is rumored that a niece of Gen. Marcellus B. Ludlow, of New York
City, will appear on the stage next season.

“Her diamonds are said to be extremely valuable and of much historic
interest.”




XXV.
THE DAY WE CELEBRATE


“In the tropics” (“Hop-along” Bibb, the bird fancier, was saying to me)
“the seasons, months, fortnights, week-ends, holidays, dog-days,
Sundays, and yesterdays get so jumbled together in the shuffle that you
never know when a year has gone by until you’re in the middle of the
next one.”

“Hop-along” Bibb kept his bird store on lower Fourth Avenue. He was an
ex-seaman and beachcomber who made regular voyages to southern ports
and imported personally conducted invoices of talking parrots and
dialectic paroquets. He had a stiff knee, neck, and nerve. I had gone
to him to buy a parrot to present, at Christmas, to my Aunt Joanna.

“This one,” said I, disregarding his homily on the subdivisions of
time—“this one that seems all red, white, and blue—to what genus of
beasts does he belong? He appeals at once to my patriotism and to my
love of discord in colour schemes.”

“That’s a cockatoo from Ecuador,” said Bibb. “All he has been taught to
say is ‘Merry Christmas.’ A seasonable bird. He’s only seven dollars;
and I’ll bet many a human has stuck you for more money by making the
same speech to you.”

And then Bibb laughed suddenly and loudly.

“That bird,” he explained, “reminds me. He’s got his dates mixed. He
ought to be saying ‘_E pluribus unum_,’ to match his feathers, instead
of trying to work the Santa Claus graft. It reminds me of the time me
and Liverpool Sam got our ideas of things tangled up on the coast of
Costa Rica on account of the weather and other phenomena to be met with
in the tropics.

“We were, as it were, stranded on that section of the Spanish main with
no money to speak of and no friends that should be talked about either.
We had stoked and second-cooked ourselves down there on a fruit steamer
from New Orleans to try our luck, which was discharged, after we got
there, for lack of evidence. There was no work suitable to our
instincts; so me and Liverpool began to subsist on the red rum of the
country and such fruit as we could reap where we had not sown. It was
an alluvial town, called Soledad, where there was no harbour or future
or recourse. Between steamers the town slept and drank rum. It only
woke up when there were bananas to ship. It was like a man sleeping
through dinner until the dessert.

“When me and Liverpool got so low down that the American consul
wouldn’t speak to us we knew we’d struck bed rock.

“We boarded with a snuff-brown lady named Chica, who kept a rum-shop
and a ladies’ and gents’ restaurant in a street called the _calle de
los_ Forty-seven Inconsolable Saints. When our credit played out there,
Liverpool, whose stomach overshadowed his sensations of _noblesse
oblige_, married Chica. This kept us in rice and fried plantain for a
month; and then Chica pounded Liverpool one morning sadly and earnestly
for fifteen minutes with a casserole handed down from the stone age,
and we knew that we had out-welcomed our liver. That night we signed an
engagement with Don Jaime McSpinosa, a hybrid banana fancier of the
place, to work on his fruit preserves nine miles out of town. We had to
do it or be reduced to sea water and broken doses of feed and slumber.

“Now, speaking of Liverpool Sam, I don’t malign or inexculpate him to
you any more than I would to his face. But in my opinion, when an
Englishman gets as low as he can he’s got to dodge so that the dregs of
other nations don’t drop ballast on him out of their balloons. And if
he’s a Liverpool Englishman, why, fire-damp is what he’s got to look
out for. Being a natural American, that’s my personal view. But
Liverpool and me had much in common. We were without decorous clothes
or ways and means of existence; and, as the saying goes, misery
certainly does enjoy the society of accomplices.

“Our job on old McSpinosa’s plantation was chopping down banana stalks
and loading the bunches of fruit on the backs of horses. Then a native
dressed up in an alligator hide belt, a machete, and a pair of AA
sheeting pajamas, drives ’em over to the coast and piles ’em up on the
beach.

“You ever been in a banana grove? It’s as solemn as a rathskeller at
seven a. m. It’s like being lost behind the scenes at one of these
mushroom musical shows. You can’t see the sky for the foliage above
you; and the ground is knee deep in rotten leaves; and it’s so still
that you can hear the stalks growing again after you chop ’em down.

“At night me and Liverpool herded in a lot of grass huts on the edge of
a lagoon with the red, yellow, and black employés of Don Jaime. There
we lay fighting mosquitoes and listening to the monkeys squalling and
the alligators grunting and splashing in the lagoon until daylight with
only snatches of sleep between times.

“We soon lost all idea of what time of the year it was. It’s just about
eighty degrees there in December and June and on Fridays and at
midnight and election day and any other old time. Sometimes it rains
more than at others, and that’s all the difference you notice. A man is
liable to live along there without noticing any fugiting of tempus
until some day the undertaker calls in for him just when he’s beginning
to think about cutting out the gang and saving up a little to invest in
real estate.

“I don’t know how long we worked for Don Jaime; but it was through two
or three rainy spells, eight or ten hair cuts, and the life of three
pairs of sail-cloth trousers. All the money we earned went for rum and
tobacco; but we ate, and that was something.

“All of a sudden one day me and Liverpool find the trade of committing
surgical operations on banana stalks turning to aloes and quinine in
our mouths. It’s a seizure that often comes upon white men in Latin and
geographical countries. We wanted to be addressed again in language and
see the smoke of a steamer and read the real estate transfers and
gents’ outfitting ads in an old newspaper. Even Soledad seemed like a
centre of civilization to us, so that evening we put our thumbs on our
nose at Don Jaime’s fruit stand and shook his grass burrs off our feet.

“It was only twelve miles to Soledad, but it took me and Liverpool two
days to get there. It was banana grove nearly all the way; and we got
twisted time and again. It was like paging the palm room of a New York
hotel for a man named Smith.

“When we saw the houses of Soledad between the trees all my
disinclination toward this Liverpool Sam rose up in me. I stood him
while we were two white men against the banana brindles; but now, when
there were prospects of my exchanging even cuss words with an American
citizen, I put him back in his proper place. And he was a sight, too,
with his rum-painted nose and his red whiskers and elephant feet with
leather sandals strapped to them. I suppose I looked about the same.

“‘It looks to me,’ says I, ‘like Great Britain ought to be made to keep
such gin-swilling, scurvy, unbecoming mud larks as you at home instead
of sending ’em over here to degrade and taint foreign lands. We kicked
you out of America once and we ought to put on rubber boots and do it
again.’

“‘Oh, you go to ’ell,’ says Liverpool, which was about all the repartee
he ever had.

“Well, Soledad, looked fine to me after Don Jaime’s plantation.
Liverpool and me walked into it side by side, from force of habit, past
the calabosa and the Hotel Grande, down across the plaza toward Chica’s
hut, where we hoped that Liverpool, being a husband of hers, might work
his luck for a meal.

“As we passed the two-story little frame house occupied by the American
Club, we noticed that the balcony had been decorated all around with
wreaths of evergreens and flowers, and the flag was flying from the
pole on the roof. Stanzey, the consul, and Arkright, a gold-mine owner,
were smoking on the balcony. Me and Liverpool waved our dirty hands
toward ’em and smiled real society smiles; but they turned their backs
to us and went on talking. And we had played whist once with the two of
’em up to the time when Liverpool held all thirteen trumps for four
hands in succession. It was some holiday, we knew; but we didn’t know
the day nor the year.

“A little further along we saw a reverend man named Pendergast, who had
come to Soledad to build a church, standing under a cocoanut palm with
his little black alpaca coat and green umbrella.

“‘Boys, boys!’ says he, through his blue spectacles, ‘is it as bad as
this? Are you so far reduced?’

“‘We’re reduced,’ says I, ‘to very vulgar fractions.’

“‘It is indeed sad,’ says Pendergast, ‘to see my countrymen in such
circumstances.’

“‘Cut ’arf of that out, old party,’ says Liverpool. ‘Cawn’t you tell a
member of the British upper classes when you see one?’

“‘Shut up,’ I told Liverpool. ‘You’re on foreign soil now, or that
portion of it that’s not on you.’

“‘And on this day, too!’ goes on Pendergast, grievous—‘on this most
glorious day of the year when we should all be celebrating the dawn of
Christian civilization and the downfall of the wicked.’

“‘I did notice bunting and bouquets decorating the town, reverend,’
says I, ‘but I didn’t know what it was for. We’ve been so long out of
touch with calendars that we didn’t know whether it was summer time or
Saturday afternoon.’

“‘Here is two dollars,’ says Pendergast digging up two Chili silver
wheels and handing ’em to me. ‘Go, my men, and observe the rest of the
day in a befitting manner.’

“Me and Liverpool thanked him kindly, and walked away.

“‘Shall we eat?’ I asks.

“‘Oh, ’ell!’ says Liverpool. ‘What’s money for?’

“‘Very well, then,’ I says, ‘since you insist upon it, we’ll drink.’

“So we pull up in a rum shop and get a quart of it and go down on the
beach under a cocoanut tree and celebrate.

“Not having eaten anything but oranges in two days, the rum has
immediate effect; and once more I conjure up great repugnance toward
the British nation.

“‘Stand up here,’ I says to Liverpool, ‘you scum of a despot limited
monarchy, and have another dose of Bunker Hill. That good man, Mr.
Pendergast,’ says I, ‘said we were to observe the day in a befitting
manner, and I’m not going to see his money misapplied.’

“‘Oh, you go to ’ell!’ says Liverpool, and I started in with a fine
left-hander on his right eye.

“Liverpool had been a fighter once, but dissipation and bad company had
taken the nerve out of him. In ten minutes I had him lying on the sand
waving the white flag.

“‘Get up,’ says I, kicking him in the ribs, ‘and come along with me.’

“Liverpool got up and followed behind me because it was his habit,
wiping the red off his face and nose. I led him to Reverend
Pendergast’s shack and called him out.

“‘Look at this, sir,’ says I—‘look at this thing that was once a proud
Britisher. You gave us two dollars and told us to celebrate the day.
The star-spangled banner still waves. Hurrah for the stars and eagles!’

“‘Dear me,’ says Pendergast, holding up his hands. ‘Fighting on this
day of all days! On Christmas day, when peace on—’

“‘Christmas, hell!’ says I. ‘I thought it was the Fourth of July.’”

“Merry Christmas!” said the red, white, and blue cockatoo.

“Take him for six dollars,” said Hop-along Bibb. “He’s got his dates
and colours mixed.”

/




THE BOY WHO LIVED

Mr. and Mrs. Dursley, of number four, Privet Drive,
were proud to say that they were perfectly normal,
thank you very much. They were the last people you’d
expect to be involved in anything strange or
mysterious, because they just didn’t hold with such
nonsense.

Mr. Dursley was the director of a firm called
Grunnings, which made drills. He was a big, beefy
man with hardly any neck, although he did have a
very large mustache. Mrs. Dursley was thin and
blonde and had nearly twice the usual amount of
neck, which came in very useful as she spent so
much of her time craning over garden fences, spying
on the neighbors. The Dursley s had a small son
called Dudley and in their opinion there was no finer
boy anywhere.

The Dursleys had everything they wanted, but they
also had a secret, and their greatest fear was that
somebody would discover it. They didn’t think they
could bear it if anyone found out about the Potters.
Mrs. Potter was Mrs. Dursley’s sister, but they hadn’t

Page | 2 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling



met for several years; in fact, Mrs. Dursley pretended
she didn’t have a sister, because her sister and her
good-for-nothing husband were as unDursleyish as it
was possible to be. The Dursleys shuddered to think
what the neighbors would say if the Potters arrived in
the street. The Dursleys knew that the Potters had a
small son, too, but they had never even seen him.

This boy was another good reason for keeping the
Potters away; they didn’t want Dudley mixing with a
child like that.

When Mr. and Mrs. Dursley woke up on the dull, gray
Tuesday our story starts, there was nothing about the
cloudy sky outside to suggest that strange and
mysterious things would soon be happening all over
the country. Mr. Dursley hummed as he picked out
his most boring tie for work, and Mrs. Dursley
gossiped away happily as she wrestled a screaming
Dudley into his high chair.

None of them noticed a large, tawny owl flutter past
the window.

At half past eight, Mr. Dursley picked up his
briefcase, pecked Mrs. Dursley on the cheek, and
tried to kiss Dudley good-bye but missed, because
Dudley was now having a tantrum and throwing his
cereal at the walls. “Little tyke,” chortled Mr. Dursley
as he left the house. He got into his car and backed
out of number four’s drive.

It was on the corner of the street that he noticed the
first sign of something peculiar — a cat reading a
map. For a second, Mr. Dursley didn’t realize what he
had seen — then he jerked his head around to look
again. There was a tabby cat standing on the corner
of Privet Drive, but there wasn’t a map in sight. What
could he have been thinking of? It must have been a
trick of the light. Mr. Dursley blinked and stared at
Page | 3 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




the cat. It stared back. As Mr. Dursley drove around
the corner and up the road, he watched the cat in his
mirror. It was now reading the sign that said Privet
Drive — no, looking at the sign; cats couldn’t read
maps or signs. Mr. Dursley gave himself a little shake
and put the cat out of his mind. As he drove toward
town he thought of nothing except a large order of
drills he was hoping to get that day.

But on the edge of town, drills were driven out of his
mind by something else. As he sat in the usual
morning traffic jam, he couldn’t help noticing that
there seemed to be a lot of strangely dressed people
about. People in cloaks. Mr. Dursley couldn’t bear
people who dressed in funny clothes — the getups
you saw on young people! He supposed this was some
stupid new fashion. He drummed his fingers on the
steering wheel and his eyes fell on a huddle of these
weirdos standing quite close by. They were whispering
excitedly together. Mr. Dursley was enraged to see
that a couple of them weren’t young at all; why, that
man had to be older than he was, and wearing an
emerald-green cloak! The nerve of him! But then it
struck Mr. Dursley that this was probably some silly
stunt — these people were obviously collecting for
something ... yes, that would be it. The traffic moved
on and a few minutes later, Mr. Dursley arrived in the
Grunnings parking lot, his mind back on drills.

Mr. Dursley always sat with his back to the window in
his office on the ninth floor. If he hadn’t, he might
have found it harder to concentrate on drills that
morning. He didn’t see the owls swooping past in
broad daylight, though people down in the street did;
they pointed and gazed open-mouthed as owl after
owl sped overhead. Most of them had never seen an
owl even at nighttime. Mr. Dursley, however, had a
perfectly normal, owl-free morning. He yelled at five
different people. He made several important telephone
Page | 4 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




calls and shouted a bit more. He was in a very good
mood until lunchtime, when he thought he’d stretch
his legs and walk across the road to buy himself a
bun from the bakery.

He’d forgotten all about the people in cloaks until he
passed a group of them next to the baker’s. He eyed
them angrily as he passed. He didn’t know why, but
they made him uneasy. This bunch were whispering
excitedly, too, and he couldn’t see a single collecting
tin. It was on his way back past them, clutching a
large doughnut in a bag, that he caught a few words
of what they were saying.

“The Potters, that’s right, that’s what I heard — ”

“ — yes, their son, Harry — ”

Mr. Dursley stopped dead. Fear flooded him. He
looked back at the whisperers as if he wanted to say
something to them, but thought better of it.

He dashed back across the road, hurried up to his
office, snapped at his secretary not to disturb him,
seized his telephone, and had almost finished dialing
his home number when he changed his mind. He put
the receiver back down and stroked his mustache,
thinking ... no, he was being stupid. Potter wasn’t
such an unusual name. He was sure there were lots
of people called Potter who had a son called Harry.
Come to think of it, he wasn’t even sure his nephew
was called Harry. He’d never even seen the boy. It
might have been Harvey. Or Harold. There was no
point in worrying Mrs. Dursley; she always got so
upset at any mention of her sister. He didn’t blame
her — if he’d had a sister like that ... but all the
same, those people in cloaks ...



Page | 5 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




He found it a lot harder to concentrate on drills that
afternoon and when he left the building at five o’clock,
he was still so worried that he walked straight into
someone just outside the door.

“Sorry,” he grunted, as the tiny old man stumbled
and almost fell. It was a few seconds before Mr.
Dursley realized that the man was wearing a violet
cloak. He didn’t seem at all upset at being almost
knocked to the ground. On the contrary, his face split
into a wide smile and he said in a squeaky voice that
made passersby stare, “Don’t be sorry, my dear sir,
for nothing could upset me today! Rejoice, for You-
Know-Who has gone at last! Even Muggles like
yourself should be celebrating, this happy, happy
day!”

And the old man hugged Mr. Dursley around the
middle and walked off.

Mr. Dursley stood rooted to the spot. He had been
hugged by a complete stranger. He also thought he
had been called a Muggle, whatever that was. He was
rattled. He hurried to his car and set off for home,
hoping he was imagining things, which he had never
hoped before, because he didn’t approve of
imagination.

As he pulled into the driveway of number four, the
first thing he saw — and it didn’t improve his mood —
was the tabby cat he’d spotted that morning. It was
now sitting on his garden wall. He was sure it was the
same one; it had the same markings around its eyes.

“Shoo!” said Mr. Dursley loudly.

The cat didn’t move. It just gave him a stern look.

Was this normal cat behavior? Mr. Dursley wondered.
Trying to pull himself together, he let himself into the

Page | 6 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




house. He was still determined not to mention
anything to his wife.

Mrs. Dursley had had a nice, normal day. She told
him over dinner all about Mrs. Next Door’s problems
with her daughter and how Dudley had learned a new
word (“Won’t!”). Mr. Dursley tried to act normally.
When Dudley had been put to bed, he went into the
living room in time to catch the last report on the
evening news:

“And finally, bird-watchers everywhere have reported
that the nation’s owls have been behaving very
unusually today. Although owls normally hunt at
night and are hardly ever seen in daylight, there have
been hundreds of sightings of these birds flying in
every direction since sunrise. Experts are unable to
explain why the owls have suddenly changed their
sleeping pattern.” The newscaster allowed himself a
grin. “Most mysterious. And now, over to Jim
McGuffin with the weather. Going to be any more
showers of owls tonight, Jim?”

“Well, Ted,” said the weatherman, “I don’t know about
that, but it’s not only the owls that have been acting
oddly today. Viewers as far apart as Kent, Yorkshire,
and Dundee have been phoning in to tell me that
instead of the rain I promised yesterday, they’ve had a
downpour of shooting stars! Perhaps people have
been celebrating Bonfire Night early — it’s not until
next week, folks! But I can promise a wet night
tonight.”

Mr. Dursley sat frozen in his armchair. Shooting stars
all over Britain? Owls flying by daylight? Mysterious
people in cloaks all over the place? And a whisper, a
whisper about the Potters . . .



Page | 7 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




Mrs. Dursley came into the living room carrying two
cups of tea. It was no good. He’d have to say
something to her. He cleared his throat nervously. “Er
— Petunia, dear — you haven’t heard from your sister
lately, have you?”

As he had expected, Mrs. Dursley looked shocked and
angry. After all, they normally pretended she didn’t
have a sister.

“No,” she said sharply. “Why?”

“Funny stuff on the news,” Mr. Dursley mumbled.
“Owls . . . shooting stars . . . and there were a lot of
funny-looking people in town today ...”

“So?” snapped Mrs. Dursley.

“Well, I just thought ... maybe ... it was something to
do with ... you know ... her crowd.”

Mrs. Dursley sipped her tea through pursed lips. Mr.
Dursley wondered whether he dared tell her he’d
heard the name “Potter.” He decided he didn’t dare.
Instead he said, as casually as he could, “Their son —
he’d be about Dudley’s age now, wouldn’t he?”

“I suppose so,” said Mrs. Dursley stiffly.

“What’s his name again? Howard, isn’t it?”

“Harry. Nasty, common name, if you ask me.”

“Oh, yes,” said Mr. Dursley, his heart sinking
horribly. “Yes, I quite agree.”

He didn’t say another word on the subject as they
went upstairs to bed. While Mrs. Dursley was in the
bathroom, Mr. Dursley crept to the bedroom window

Page | 8 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




and peered down into the front garden. The cat was
still there. It was staring down Privet Drive as though
it were waiting for something.

Was he imagining things? Could all this have
anything to do with the Potters? If it did ... if it got out
that they were related to a pair of — well, he didn’t
think he could bear it.

The Dursleys got into bed. Mrs. Dursley fell asleep
quickly but Mr. Dursley lay awake, turning it all over
in his mind. His last, comforting thought before he fell
asleep was that even if the Potters were involved,
there was no reason for them to come near him and
Mrs. Dursley. The Potters knew very well what he and
Petunia thought about them and their kind. ... He
couldn’t see how he and Petunia could get mixed up
in anything that might be going on — he yawned and
turned over — it couldn’t affect them. ...

How very wrong he was.

Mr. Dursley might have been drifting into an uneasy
sleep, but the cat on the wall outside was showing no
sign of sleepiness. It was sitting as still as a statue,
its eyes fixed unblinkingly on the far corner of Privet
Drive. It didn’t so much as quiver when a car door
slammed on the next street, nor when two owls
swooped overhead. In fact, it was nearly midnight
before the cat moved at all.

A man appeared on the corner the cat had been
watching, appeared so suddenly and silently you’d
have thought he’d just popped out of the ground. The
cat’s tail twitched and its eyes narrowed.

Nothing like this man had ever been seen on Privet
Drive. He was tall, thin, and very old, judging by the
silver of his hair and beard, which were both long

Page | 9 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




enough to tuck into his belt. He was wearing long
robes, a purple cloak that swept the ground, and
high-heeled, buckled boots. His blue eyes were light,
bright, and sparkling behind half-moon spectacles
and his nose was very long and crooked, as though it
had been broken at least twice. This man’s name was
Albus Dumbledore.

Albus Dumbledore didn’t seem to realize that he had
just arrived in a street where everything from his
name to his boots was unwelcome. He was busy
rummaging in his cloak, looking for something. But
he did seem to realize he was being watched, because
he looked up suddenly at the cat, which was still
staring at him from the other end of the street. For
some reason, the sight of the cat seemed to amuse
him. He chuckled and muttered, “I should have
known.”

He found what he was looking for in his inside
pocket. It seemed to be a silver cigarette lighter. He
flicked it open, held it up in the air, and clicked it.
The nearest street lamp went out with a little pop. He
clicked it again — the next lamp flickered into
darkness. Twelve times he clicked the Put-Outer,
until the only lights left on the whole street were two
tiny pinpricks in the distance, which were the eyes of
the cat watching him. If anyone looked out of their
window now, even beady-eyed Mrs. Dursley, they
wouldn’t be able to see anything that was happening
down on the pavement. Dumbledore slipped the Put-
Outer back inside his cloak and set off down the
street toward number four, where he sat down on the
wall next to the cat. He didn’t look at it, but after a
moment he spoke to it.

“Fancy seeing you here, Professor McGonagall.”



Page | 10 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




He turned to smile at the tabby, but it had gone.
Instead he was smiling at a rather severe-looking
woman who was wearing square glasses exactly the
shape of the markings the cat had had around its
eyes. She, too, was wearing a cloak, an emerald one.
Her black hair was drawn into a tight bun. She
looked distinctly ruffled.

“How did you know it was me?” she asked.

“My dear Professor, I’ve never seen a cat sit so stiffly.”

“You’d be stiff if you’d been sitting on a brick wall all
day,” said Professor McGonagall.

“All day? When you could have been celebrating? I
must have passed a dozen feasts and parties on my
way here.”

Professor McGonagall sniffed angrily.

“Oh yes, everyone’s celebrating, all right,” she said
impatiently. “You’d think they’d be a bit more careful,
but no — even the Muggles have noticed something’s
going on. It was on their news.” She jerked her head
back at the Dursleys’ dark living-room window. “I
heard it. Flocks of owls ... shooting stars. ... Well,
they’re not completely stupid. They were bound to
notice something. Shooting stars down in Kent — I’ll
bet that was Dedalus Diggle. He never had much
sense.”

“You can’t blame them,” said Dumbledore gently.
“We’ve had precious little to celebrate for eleven
years.”

“I know that,” said Professor McGonagall irritably.

“But that’s no reason to lose our heads. People are
being downright careless, out on the streets in broad

Page | 11 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




daylight, not even dressed in Muggle clothes,
swapping rumors.”

She threw a sharp, sideways glance at Dumbledore
here, as though hoping he was going to tell her
something, but he didn’t, so she went on. “A fine
thing it would be if, on the very day You-Know-Who
seems to have disappeared at last, the Muggles found
out about us all. I suppose he really has gone,
Dumbledore?”

“It certainly seems so,” said Dumbledore. “We have
much to be thankful for. Would you care for a lemon
drop?”

“A what?”

“A lemon drop. They’re a kind of Muggle sweet I’m
rather fond of.”

“No, thank you,” said Professor McGonagall coldly, as
though she didn’t think this was the moment for
lemon drops. “As I say, even if You-Know-Who has
gone — ”

“My dear Professor, surely a sensible person like
yourself can call him by his name? All this You-
Know-Who’ nonsense — for eleven years I have been
trying to persuade people to call him by his proper
name: Voldemort.” Professor McGonagall flinched, but
Dumbledore, who was unsticking two lemon drops,
seemed not to notice. “It all gets so confusing if we
keep saying You-Know-Who.’ I have never seen any
reason to be frightened of saying Voldemort’s name.”

“I know you haven’t,” said Professor McGonagall,
sounding half exasperated, half admiring. “But you’re
different. Everyone knows you’re the only one You-
Know- oh, all right, Voldemort, was frightened of.”

Page | 12 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“You flatter me,” said Dumbledore calmly. “Voldemort
had powers I will never have.”



“Only because you’re too — well — noble to use
them.”

“It’s lucky it’s dark. I haven’t blushed so much since
Madam Pomfrey told me she liked my new earmuffs.”

Professor McGonagall shot a sharp look at
Dumbledore and said, “The owls are nothing next to
the rumors that are flying around. You know what
everyone’s saying? About why he’s disappeared?

About what finally stopped him?”

It seemed that Professor McGonagall had reached the
point she was most anxious to discuss, the real
reason she had been waiting on a cold, hard wall all
day, for neither as a cat nor as a woman had she
fixed Dumbledore with such a piercing stare as she
did now. It was plain that whatever “everyone” was
saying, she was not going to believe it until
Dumbledore told her it was true. Dumbledore,
however, was choosing another lemon drop and did
not answer.

“What they’re saying,” she pressed on, “is that last
night Voldemort turned up in Godric’s Hollow. He
went to find the Potters. The rumor is that Lily and
James Potter are — are — that they’re — dead.”

Dumbledore bowed his head. Professor McGonagall
gasped.

“Lily and James ... I can’t believe it ... I didn’t want to
believe it ... Oh, Albus ...”

Dumbledore reached out and patted her on the
shoulder. “I know ... I know ...” he said heavily.

Page | 13 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




Professor McGonagall’s voice trembled as she went
on. “That’s not all. They’re saying he tried to kill the
Potters’ son, Harry. But — he couldn’t. He couldn’t
kill that little boy. No one knows why, or how, but
they’re saying that when he couldn’t kill Harry Potter,
Voldemort’s power somehow broke — and that’s why
he’s gone.”

Dumbledore nodded glumly.

“It’s — it’s true?” faltered Professor McGonagall. “After
all he’s done ... all the people he’s killed ... he couldn’t
kill a little boy? It’s just astounding ... of all the
things to stop him . . . but how in the name of heaven
did Harry survive?”

“We can only guess,” said Dumbledore. “We may
never know.”

Professor McGonagall pulled out a lace handkerchief
and dabbed at her eyes beneath her spectacles.
Dumbledore gave a great sniff as he took a golden
watch from his pocket and examined it. It was a very
odd watch. It had twelve hands but no numbers;
instead, little planets were moving around the edge. It
must have made sense to Dumbledore, though,
because he put it back in his pocket and said,
“Hagrid’s late. I suppose it was he who told you I’d be
here, by the way?”

“Yes,” said Professor McGonagall. “And I don’t
suppose you’re going to tell me why you’re here, of all
places?”

“I’ve come to bring Harry to his aunt and uncle.
They’re the only family he has left now.”

“You don’t mean — you can’t mean the people who
live here?” cried Professor McGonagall, jumping to her

Page | 14 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone -J.K. Rowling




feet and pointing at number four. “Dumbledore — you
can’t. I’ve been watching them all day. You couldn’t
find two people who are less like us. And they’ve got
this son — I saw him kicking his mother all the way
up the street, screaming for sweets. Harry Potter
come and live here!”

“It’s the best place for him,” said Dumbledore firmly.
“His aunt and uncle will be able to explain everything
to him when he’s older. I’ve written them a letter.”

“A letter?” repeated Professor McGonagall faintly,
sitting back down on the wall. “Really, Dumbledore,
you think you can explain all this in a letter? These
people will never understand him! He’ll be famous —
a legend — I wouldn’t be surprised if today was
known as Harry Potter Day in the future — there will
be books written about Harry — every child in our
world will know his name!”

“Exactly,” said Dumbledore, looking very seriously
over the top of his half-moon glasses. “It would be
enough to turn any boy’s head. Famous before he can
walk and talk! Famous for something he won’t even
remember! Can’t you see how much better off he’ll be,
growing up away from all that until he’s ready to take
it?”



Professor McGonagall opened her mouth, changed her
mind, swallowed, and then said, “Yes — yes, you’re
right, of course. But how is the boy getting here,
Dumbledore?” She eyed his cloak suddenly as though
she thought he might be hiding Harry underneath it.

“Hagrid’s bringing him.”

“You think it — wise — to trust Hagrid with
something as important as this?”



Page | 15 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“I would trust Hagrid with my life,” said Dumbledore.

“I’m not saying his heart isn’t in the right place,” said
Professor McGonagall grudgingly, “but you can’t
pretend he’s not careless. He does tend to — what
was that?”

A low rumbling sound had broken the silence around
them. It grew steadily louder as they looked up and
down the street for some sign of a headlight; it
swelled to a roar as they both looked up at the sky —
and a huge motorcycle fell out of the air and landed
on the road in front of them.

If the motorcycle was huge, it was nothing to the man
sitting astride it. He was almost twice as tall as a
normal man and at least five times as wide. He looked
simply too big to be allowed, and so wild — long
tangles of bushy black hair and beard hid most of his
face, he had hands the size of trash can lids, and his
feet in their leather boots were like baby dolphins. In
his vast, muscular arms he was holding a bundle of
blankets.

“Hagrid,” said Dumbledore, sounding relieved. “At
last. And where did you get that motorcycle?”

“Borrowed it, Professor Dumbledore, sir,” said the
giant, climbing carefully off the motorcycle as he
spoke. “Young Sirius Black lent it to me. I’ve got him,
sir.”

“No problems, were there?”

“No, sir — house was almost destroyed, but I got him
out all right before the Muggles started swarmin’
around. He fell asleep as we was flyin’ over Bristol.”



Page | 16 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




Dumbledore and Professor McGonagall bent forward
over the bundle of blankets. Inside, just visible, was a
baby boy, fast asleep. Under a tuft of jet-black hair
over his forehead they could see a curiously shaped
cut, like a bolt of lightning.

“Is that where — ?” whispered Professor McGonagall.

“Yes,” said Dumbledore. “Hell have that scar forever.”

“Couldn’t you do something about it, Dumbledore?”

“Even if I could, I wouldn’t. Scars can come in handy.

I have one myself above my left knee that is a perfect
map of the London Underground. Well — give him
here, Hagrid — we’d better get this over with.”

Dumbledore took Harry in his arms and turned
toward the Dursleys’ house.

“Could I — could I say good-bye to him, sir?” asked
Hagrid. He bent his great, shaggy head over Harry
and gave him what must have been a very scratchy,
whiskery kiss. Then, suddenly, Hagrid let out a howl
like a wounded dog.

“Shhh!” hissed Professor McGonagall, “you’ll wake the
Muggles!”

“S-s-sorry,” sobbed Hagrid, taking out a large, spotted
handkerchief and burying his face in it. “But I c-c-
can’t stand it — Lily an’ James dead — an’ poor little
Harry off ter live with Muggles — ”

“Yes, yes, it’s all very sad, but get a grip on yourself,
Hagrid, or we’ll be found,” Professor McGonagall
whispered, patting Hagrid gingerly on the arm as
Dumbledore stepped over the low garden wall and
walked to the front door. He laid Harry gently on the
Page | 17 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




doorstep, took a letter out of his cloak, tucked it
inside Harry’s blankets, and then came back to the
other two. For a full minute the three of them stood
and looked at the little bundle; Hagrid’s shoulders
shook, Professor McGonagall blinked furiously, and
the twinkling light that usually shone from
Dumbledore’s eyes seemed to have gone out.

“Well,” said Dumbledore finally, “that’s that. We’ve no
business staying here. We may as well go and join the
celebrations.”

“Yeah,” said Hagrid in a very muffled voice, “I’d best
get this bike away. G ’night, Professor McGonagall —
Professor Dumbledore, sir.”

Wiping his streaming eyes on his jacket sleeve, Hagrid
swung himself onto the motorcycle and kicked the
engine into life; with a roar it rose into the air and off
into the night.

“I shall see you soon, I expect, Professor McGonagall,”
said Dumbledore, nodding to her. Professor
McGonagall blew her nose in reply.

Dumbledore turned and walked back down the street.
On the corner he stopped and took out the silver Put-
Outer. He clicked it once, and twelve balls of light
sped back to their street lamps so that Privet Drive
glowed suddenly orange and he could make out a
tabby cat slinking around the corner at the other end
of the street. He could just see the bundle of blankets
on the step of number four.

“Good luck, Harry,” he murmured. He turned on his
heel and with a swish of his cloak, he was gone.

A breeze ruffled the neat hedges of Privet Drive, which
lay silent and tidy under the inky sky, the very last

Page | 18 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




place you would expect astonishing things to happen.
Harry Potter rolled over inside his blankets without
waking up. One small hand closed on the letter
beside him and he slept on, not knowing he was
special, not knowing he was famous, not knowing he
would be woken in a few hours’ time by Mrs.

Dursley’s scream as she opened the front door to put
out the milk bottles, nor that he would spend the next
few weeks being prodded and pinched by his cousin
Dudley. ... He couldn’t know that at this very
moment, people meeting in secret all over the country
were holding up their glasses and saying in hushed
voices: “To Harry Potter — the boy who lived!”



Page | 19 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling






THE VANASHIG GLASS

Nearly ten years had passed since the Dursleys had
woken up to find their nephew on the front step, but
Privet Drive had hardly changed at all. The sun rose
on the same tidy front gardens and lit up the brass
number four on the Dursleys’ front door; it crept into
their living room, which was almost exactly the same
as it had been on the night when Mr. Dursley had
seen that fateful news report about the owls. Only the
photographs on the mantelpiece really showed how
much time had passed. Ten years ago, there had been
lots of pictures of what looked like a large pink beach
ball wearing different-colored bonnets — but Dudley
Dursley was no longer a baby, and now the
photographs showed a large blond boy riding his first
bicycle, on a carousel at the fair, playing a computer
game with his father, being hugged and kissed by his
mother. The room held no sign at all that another boy
lived in the house, too.

Yet Harry Potter was still there, asleep at the moment,
but not for long. His Aunt Petunia was awake and it



Page | 20 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




was her shrill voice that made the first noise of the
day.

“Up! Get up! Now!”

Harry woke with a start. His aunt rapped on the door
again.

“Up!” she screeched. Harry heard her walking toward
the kitchen and then the sound of the frying pan
being put on the stove. He rolled onto his back and
tried to remember the dream he had been having. It
had been a good one. There had been a flying
motorcycle in it. He had a funny feeling he’d had the
same dream before.

His aunt was back outside the door.

“Are you up yet?” she demanded.

“Nearly,” said Harry.

“Well, get a move on, I want you to look after the
bacon. And don’t you dare let it burn, I want
everything perfect on Duddy’s birthday.”

Harry groaned.

“What did you say?” his aunt snapped through the
door.

“Nothing, nothing ...”

Dudley’s birthday — how could he have forgotten?
Harry got slowly out of bed and started looking for
socks. He found a pair under his bed and, after
pulling a spider off one of them, put them on. Harry
was used to spiders, because the cupboard under the
stairs was full of them, and that was where he slept.
Page | 21 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




When he was dressed he went down the hall into the
kitchen. The table was almost hidden beneath all
Dudley’s birthday presents. It looked as though
Dudley had gotten the new computer he wanted, not
to mention the second television and the racing bike.
Exactly why Dudley wanted a racing bike was a
mystery to Harry, as Dudley was very fat and hated
exercise — unless of course it involved punching
somebody. Dudley’s favorite punching bag was Harry,
but he couldn’t often catch him. Harry didn’t look it,
but he was very fast.

Perhaps it had something to do with living in a dark
cupboard, but Harry had always been small and
skinny for his age. He looked even smaller and
skinnier than he really was because all he had to
wear were old clothes of Dudley’s, and Dudley was
about four times bigger than he was. Harry had a thin
face, knobbly knees, black hair, and bright green
eyes. He wore round glasses held together with a lot
of Scotch tape because of all the times Dudley had
punched him on the nose. The only thing Harry liked
about his own appearance was a very thin scar on his
forehead that was shaped like a bolt of lightning. He
had had it as long as he could remember, and the
first question he could ever remember asking his
Aunt Petunia was how he had gotten it.

“In the car crash when your parents died,” she had
said. “And don’t ask questions.”

Don’t ask questions — that was the first rule for a
quiet life with the Dursleys.

Uncle Vernon entered the kitchen as Harry was
turning over the bacon.

“Comb your hair!” he barked, by way of a morning
greeting.

Page | 22 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




About once a week, Uncle Vernon looked over the top
of his newspaper and shouted that Harry needed a
haircut. Harry must have had more haircuts than the
rest of the boys in his class put together, but it made
no difference, his hair simply grew that way — all over
the place.

Harry was frying eggs by the time Dudley arrived in
the kitchen with his mother. Dudley looked a lot like
Uncle Vernon. He had a large pink face, not much
neck, small, watery blue eyes, and thick blond hair
that lay smoothly on his thick, fat head. Aunt Petunia
often said that Dudley looked like a baby angel —
Harry often said that Dudley looked like a pig in a
wig.

Harry put the plates of egg and bacon on the table,
which was difficult as there wasn’t much room.
Dudley, meanwhile, was counting his presents. His
face fell.

“Thirty-six,” he said, looking up at his mother and
father. “That’s two less than last year.”

“Darling, you haven’t counted Auntie Marge’s present,
see, it’s here under this big one from Mommy and
Daddy.”

“All right, thirty-seven then,” said Dudley, going red
in the face. Harry, who could see a huge Dudley
tantrum coming on, began wolfing down his bacon as
fast as possible in case Dudley turned the table over.

Aunt Petunia obviously scented danger, too, because
she said quickly, “And we’ll buy you another two
presents while we’re out today. How’s that, popkin?
Two more presents. Is that all right?”



Page | 23 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




Dudley thought for a moment. It looked like hard
work. Finally he said slowly, “So I’ll have thirty ...
thirty ...”

“Thirty-nine, sweetums,” said Aunt Petunia.

“Oh.” Dudley sat down heavily and grabbed the
nearest parcel. “All right then.”

Uncle Vernon chuckled.

“Little tyke wants his money’s worth, just like his
father. ’Atta boy, Dudley!” He ruffled Dudley’s hair.

At that moment the telephone rang and Aunt Petunia
went to answer it while Harry and Uncle Vernon
watched Dudley unwrap the racing bike, a video
camera, a remote control airplane, sixteen new
computer games, and a VCR. He was ripping the
paper off a gold wristwatch when Aunt Petunia came
back from the telephone looking both angry and
worried.

“Bad news, Vernon,” she said. “Mrs. Figg’s broken her
leg. She can’t take him.” She jerked her head in
Harry’s direction.

Dudley’s mouth fell open in horror, but Harry’s heart
gave a leap. Every year on Dudley’s birthday, his
parents took him and a friend out for the day, to
adventure parks, hamburger restaurants, or the
movies. Every year, Harry was left behind with Mrs.
Figg, a mad old lady who lived two streets away.

Harry hated it there. The whole house smelled of
cabbage and Mrs. Figg made him look at photographs
of all the cats she’d ever owned.

“Now what?” said Aunt Petunia, looking furiously at
Harry as though he’d planned this. Harry knew he

Page | 24 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




ought to feel sorry that Mrs. Figg had broken her leg,
but it wasn’t easy when he reminded himself it would
be a whole year before he had to look at Tibbies,
Snowy, Mr. Paws, and Tufty again.

“We could phone Marge,” Uncle Vernon suggested.

“Don’t be silly, Vernon, she hates the boy.”

The Dursleys often spoke about Harry like this, as
though he wasn’t there — or rather, as though he was
something very nasty that couldn’t understand them,
like a slug.

“What about what’s-her-name, your friend —
Yvonne?”

“On vacation in Majorca,” snapped Aunt Petunia.

“You could just leave me here,” Harry put in hopefully
(he’d be able to watch what he wanted on television
for a change and maybe even have a go on Dudley’s
computer) .

Aunt Petunia looked as though she’d just swallowed a
lemon.

“And come back and find the house in ruins?” she
snarled.

“I won’t blow up the house,” said Harry, but they
weren’t listening.

“I suppose we could take him to the zoo,” said Aunt
Petunia slowly, "... and leave him in the car. ...”

“That cars new, he’s not sitting in it alone. ...”



Page | 25 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




Dudley began to cry loudly. In fact, he wasn’t really
crying — it had been years since he’d really cried —
but he knew that if he screwed up his face and
wailed, his mother would give him anything he
wanted.

“Dinky Duddydums, don’t cry, Mummy won’t let him
spoil your special day!” she cried, flinging her arms
around him.

“I ... don’t ... want ... him ... t-t-to come!” Dudley
yelled between huge, pretend sobs. “He always sp-
spoils everything!” He shot Harry a nasty grin through
the gap in his mothers arms.

Just then, the doorbell rang — “Oh, good Lord,
they’re here!” said Aunt Petunia frantically — and a
moment later, Dudley’s best friend, Piers Polkiss,
walked in with his mother. Piers was a scrawny boy
with a face like a rat. He was usually the one who
held people’s arms behind their backs while Dudley
hit them. Dudley stopped pretending to cry at once.

Half an hour later, Harry, who couldn’t believe his
luck, was sitting in the back of the Dursleys’ car with
Piers and Dudley, on the way to the zoo for the first
time in his life. His aunt and uncle hadn’t been able
to think of anything else to do with him, but before
they’d left, Uncle Vernon had taken Harry aside.

“I’m warning you,” he had said, putting his large
purple face right up close to Harry’s, “I’m warning you
now, boy — any funny business, anything at all —
and you’ll be in that cupboard from now until
Christmas.”

I’m not going to do anything,” said Harry, “honestly



Page | 26 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




But Uncle Vernon didn’t believe him. No one ever did.



The problem was, strange things often happened
around Harry and it was just no good telling the
Dursleys he didn’t make them happen.

Once, Aunt Petunia, tired of Harry coming back from
the barbers looking as though he hadn’t been at all,
had taken a pair of kitchen scissors and cut his hair
so short he was almost bald except for his bangs,
which she left “to hide that horrible scar.” Dudley had
laughed himself silly at Harry, who spent a sleepless
night imagining school the next day, where he was
already laughed at for his baggy clothes and taped
glasses. Next morning, however, he had gotten up to
find his hair exactly as it had been before Aunt
Petunia had sheared it off. He had been given a week
in his cupboard for this, even though he had tried to
explain that he couldn’t explain how it had grown
back so quickly.

Another time, Aunt Petunia had been trying to force
him into a revolting old sweater of Dudley’s (brown
with orange puff balls). The harder she tried to pull it
over his head, the smaller it seemed to become, until
finally it might have fitted a hand puppet, but
certainly wouldn’t fit Harry. Aunt Petunia had decided
it must have shrunk in the wash and, to his great
relief, Harry wasn’t punished.

On the other hand, he’d gotten into terrible trouble
for being found on the roof of the school kitchens.
Dudley’s gang had been chasing him as usual when,
as much to Harry’s surprise as anyone else’s, there he
was sitting on the chimney. The Dursleys had
received a very angry letter from Harry’s headmistress
telling them Harry had been climbing school
buildings. But all he’d tried to do (as he shouted at
Uncle Vernon through the locked door of his
Page | 27 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




cupboard) was jump behind the big trash cans
outside the kitchen doors. Harry supposed that the
wind must have caught him in mid-jump.

But today, nothing was going to go wrong. It was even
worth being with Dudley and Piers to be spending the
day somewhere that wasn’t school, his cupboard, or
Mrs. Figg’s cabbage-smelling living room.

While he drove, Uncle Vernon complained to Aunt
Petunia. He liked to complain about things: people at
work, Harry, the council, Harry, the bank, and Harry
were just a few of his favorite subjects. This morning,
it was motorcycles.

"... roaring along like maniacs, the young hoodlums,”
he said, as a motorcycle overtook them.

“I had a dream about a motorcycle,” said Harry,
remembering suddenly. “It was flying.”

Uncle Vernon nearly crashed into the car in front. He
turned right around in his seat and yelled at Harry,
his face like a gigantic beet with a mustache:
“MOTORCYCLES DONT FLY!”

Dudley and Piers sniggered.

“I know they don’t,” said Harry. “It was only a dream.”

But he wished he hadn’t said anything. If there was
one thing the Dursleys hated even more than his
asking questions, it was his talking about anything
acting in a way it shouldn’t, no matter if it was in a
dream or even a cartoon — they seemed to think he
might get dangerous ideas.

It was a very sunny Saturday and the zoo was
crowded with families. The Dursleys bought Dudley

Page | 28 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




and Piers large chocolate ice creams at the entrance
and then, because the smiling lady in the van had
asked Harry what he wanted before they could hurry
him away, they bought him a cheap lemon ice pop. It
wasn’t bad, either, Harry thought, licking it as they
watched a gorilla scratching its head who looked
remarkably like Dudley, except that it wasn’t blond.

Harry had the best morning he’d had in a long time.
He was careful to walk a little way apart from the
Dursleys so that Dudley and Piers, who were starting
to get bored with the animals by lunchtime, wouldn’t
fall back on their favorite hobby of hitting him. They
ate in the zoo restaurant, and when Dudley had a
tantrum because his knickerbocker glory didn’t have
enough ice cream on top, Uncle Vernon bought him
another one and Harry was allowed to finish the first.

Harry felt, afterward, that he should have known it
was all too good to last.

After lunch they went to the reptile house. It was cool
and dark in there, with lit windows all along the
walls. Behind the glass, all sorts of lizards and snakes
were crawling and slithering over bits of wood and
stone. Dudley and Piers wanted to see huge,
poisonous cobras and thick, man-crushing pythons.
Dudley quickly found the largest snake in the place. It
could have wrapped its body twice around Uncle
Vernon’s car and crushed it into a trash can — but at
the moment it didn’t look in the mood. In fact, it was
fast asleep.

Dudley stood with his nose pressed against the glass,
staring at the glistening brown coils.

“Make it move,” he whined at his father. Uncle Vernon
tapped on the glass, but the snake didn’t budge.



Page | 29 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Do it again,” Dudley ordered. Uncle Vernon rapped
the glass smartly with his knuckles, but the snake
just snoozed on.

“This is boring,” Dudley moaned. He shuffled away.

Harry moved in front of the tank and looked intently
at the snake. He wouldn’t have been surprised if it
had died of boredom itself — no company except
stupid people drumming their fingers on the glass
trying to disturb it all day long. It was worse than
having a cupboard as a bedroom, where the only
visitor was Aunt Petunia hammering on the door to
wake you up; at least he got to visit the rest of the
house.

The snake suddenly opened its beady eyes. Slowly,
very slowly, it raised its head until its eyes were on a
level with Harry’s.

It winked.

Harry stared. Then he looked quickly around to see if
anyone was watching. They weren’t. He looked back
at the snake and winked, too.

The snake jerked its head toward Uncle Vernon and
Dudley, then raised its eyes to the ceiling. It gave
Harry a look that said quite plainly:

“I get that all the time.”

“I know,” Harry murmured through the glass, though
he wasn’t sure the snake could hear him. “It must be
really annoying.”

The snake nodded vigorously.

“Where do you come from, anyway?” Harry asked.

Page | 30 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




The snake jabbed its tail at a little sign next to the
glass. Harry peered at it.

Boa Constrictor, Brazil.

“Was it nice there?”

The boa constrictor jabbed its tail at the sign again
and Harry read on: This specimen was bred in the
zoo. “Oh, I see — so you’ve never been to Brazil?”

As the snake shook its head, a deafening shout
behind Harry made both of them jump. “DUDLEY!
MR. DURSLEY! COME AND LOOK AT THIS SNAKE!
YOU WONT BELIEVE WHAT IT’S DOING!”

Dudley came waddling toward them as fast as he
could.

“Out of the way, you,” he said, punching Harry in the
ribs. Caught by surprise, Harry fell hard on the
concrete floor. What came next happened so fast no
one saw how it happened — one second, Piers and
Dudley were leaning right up close to the glass, the
next, they had leapt back with howls of horror.

Harry sat up and gasped; the glass front of the boa
constrictor’s tank had vanished. The great snake was
uncoiling itself rapidly, slithering out onto the floor.
People throughout the reptile house screamed and
started running for the exits.

As the snake slid swiftly past him, Harry could have
sworn a low, hissing voice said, “Brazil, here I come.
... Thanksss, amigo.”

The keeper of the reptile house was in shock.



Page | 31 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“But the glass,” he kept saying, “where did the glass
go?” "

The zoo director himself made Aunt Petunia a cup of
strong, sweet tea while he apologized over and over
again. Piers and Dudley could only gibber. As far as
Harry had seen, the snake hadn’t done anything
except snap playfully at their heels as it passed, but
by the time they were all back in Uncle Vernon’s car,
Dudley was telling them how it had nearly bitten off
his leg, while Piers was swearing it had tried to
squeeze him to death. But worst of all, for Harry at
least, was Piers calming down enough to say, “Harry
was talking to it, weren’t you, Harry?”

Uncle Vernon waited until Piers was safely out of the
house before starting on Harry. He was so angry he
could hardly speak. He managed to say, “Go —
cupboard — stay — no meals,” before he collapsed
into a chair, and Aunt Petunia had to run and get
him a large brandy.

Harry lay in his dark cupboard much later, wishing
he had a watch. He didn’t know what time it was and
he couldn’t be sure the Dursleys were asleep yet.

Until they were, he couldn’t risk sneaking to the
kitchen for some food.

He’d lived with the Dursleys almost ten years, ten
miserable years, as long as he could remember, ever
since he’d been a baby and his parents had died in
that car crash. He couldn’t remember being in the car
when his parents had died. Sometimes, when he
strained his memory during long hours in his
cupboard, he came up with a strange vision: a
blinding flash of green light and a burning pain on his
forehead. This, he supposed, was the crash, though
he couldn’t imagine where all the green light came
from. He couldn’t remember his parents at all. His
Page | 32 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




aunt and uncle never spoke about them, and of
course he was forbidden to ask questions. There were
no photographs of them in the house.

When he had been younger, Harry had dreamed and
dreamed of some unknown relation coming to take
him away, but it had never happened; the Dursleys
were his only family. Yet sometimes he thought (or
maybe hoped) that strangers in the street seemed to
know him. Very strange strangers they were, too. A
tiny man in a violet top hat had bowed to him once
while out shopping with Aunt Petunia and Dudley.
After asking Harry furiously if he knew the man, Aunt
Petunia had rushed them out of the shop without
buying anything. A wild-looking old woman dressed
all in green had waved merrily at him once on a bus.

A bald man in a very long purple coat had actually
shaken his hand in the street the other day and then
walked away without a word. The weirdest thing
about all these people was the way they seemed to
vanish the second Harry tried to get a closer look.

At school, Harry had no one. Everybody knew that
Dudley’s gang hated that odd Harry Potter in his
baggy old clothes and broken glasses, and nobody
liked to disagree with Dudley’s gang.



Page | 33 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




3




THE LETTERS FROM NO ONE

The escape of the Brazilian boa constrictor earned
Harry his longest-ever punishment. By the time he
was allowed out of his cupboard again, the summer
holidays had started and Dudley had already broken
his new video camera, crashed his remote control
airplane, and, first time out on his racing bike,
knocked down old Mrs. Figg as she crossed Privet
Drive on her crutches.

Harry was glad school was over, but there was no
escaping Dudley’s gang, who visited the house every
single day. Piers, Dennis, Malcolm, and Gordon were
all big and stupid, but as Dudley was the biggest and
stupidest of the lot, he was the leader. The rest of
them were all quite happy to join in Dudley’s favorite
sport: Harry Hunting.

This was why Harry spent as much time as possible
out of the house, wandering around and thinking
about the end of the holidays, where he could see a
tiny ray of hope. When September came he would be
going off to secondary school and, for the first time in
Page | 34 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling



his life, he wouldn’t be with Dudley. Dudley had been
accepted at Uncle Vernon’s old private school,
Smeltings. Piers Polkiss was going there too. Harry,
on the other hand, was going to Stonewall High, the
local public school. Dudley thought this was very
funny.

“They stuff people’s heads down the toilet the first day
at Stonewall,” he told Harry. “Want to come upstairs
and practice?”

“No, thanks,” said Harry. “The poor toilet’s never had
anything as horrible as your head down it — it might
be sick.” Then he ran, before Dudley could work out
what he’d said.

One day in July, Aunt Petunia took Dudley to London
to buy his Smeltings uniform, leaving Harry at Mrs.
Figg’s. Mrs. Figg wasn’t as bad as usual. It turned out
she’d broken her leg tripping over one of her cats, and
she didn’t seem quite as fond of them as before. She
let Harry watch television and gave him a bit of
chocolate cake that tasted as though she’d had it for
several years.

That evening, Dudley paraded around the living room
for the family in his brand-new uniform. Smeltings
boys wore maroon tailcoats, orange knickerbockers,
and flat straw hats called boaters. They also carried
knobbly sticks, used for hitting each other while the
teachers weren’t looking. This was supposed to be
good training for later life.

As he looked at Dudley in his new knickerbockers,
Uncle Vernon said gruffly that it was the proudest
moment of his life. Aunt Petunia burst into tears and
said she couldn’t believe it was her Ickle Dudleykins,
he looked so handsome and grown-up. Harry didn’t



Page | 35 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




trust himself to speak. He thought two of his ribs
might already have cracked from trying not to laugh.



k k k



There was a horrible smell in the kitchen the next
morning when Harry went in for breakfast. It seemed
to be coming from a large metal tub in the sink. He
went to have a look. The tub was full of what looked
like dirty rags swimming in gray water.

“What’s this?” he asked Aunt Petunia. Her lips
tightened as they always did if he dared to ask a
question.

“Your new school uniform,” she said.

Harry looked in the bowl again.

“Oh,” he said, “I didn’t realize it had to be so wet.”

“Don’t be stupid,” snapped Aunt Petunia. “I’m dyeing
some of Dudley’s old things gray for you. It’ll look just
like everyone else’s when I’ve finished.”

Harry seriously doubted this, but thought it best not
to argue. He sat down at the table and tried not to
think about how he was going to look on his first day
at Stonewall High — like he was wearing bits of old
elephant skin, probably.

Dudley and Uncle Vernon came in, both with
wrinkled noses because of the smell from Harry’s new
uniform. Uncle Vernon opened his newspaper as
usual and Dudley banged his Smelting stick, which
he carried everywhere, on the table.

They heard the click of the mail slot and flop of letters
on the doormat.

Page | 36 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Get the mail, Dudley,” said Uncle Vernon from
behind his paper.

“Make Harry get it.”

“Get the mail, Harry.”

“Make Dudley get it.”

“Poke him with your Smelting stick, Dudley.”

Harry dodged the Smelting stick and went to get the
mail. Three things lay on the doormat: a postcard
from Uncle Vernon’s sister Marge, who was
vacationing on the Isle of Wight, a brown envelope
that looked like a bill, and — a letter for Harry.

Harry picked it up and stared at it, his heart twanging
like a giant elastic band. No one, ever, in his whole
life, had written to him. Who would? He had no
friends, no other relatives — he didn’t belong to the
library, so he’d never even got rude notes asking for
books back. Yet here it was, a letter, addressed so
plainly there could be no mistake:

Mr. H. Potter

The Cupboard under the Stairs
4 Privet Drive
Little Whinging
Surrey

The envelope was thick and heavy, made of yellowish
parchment, and the address was written in emerald-
green ink. There was no stamp.



Page | 37 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




Turning the envelope over, his hand trembling, Harry
saw a purple wax seal bearing a coat of arms; a lion,
an eagle, a badger, and a snake surrounding a large
letter H.

“Hurry up, boy!” shouted Uncle Vernon from the
kitchen. “What are you doing, checking for letter
bombs?” He chuckled at his own joke.

Harry went back to the kitchen, still staring at his
letter. He handed Uncle Vernon the bill and the
postcard, sat down, and slowly began to open the
yellow envelope.

Uncle Vernon ripped open the bill, snorted in disgust,
and flipped over the postcard.

“Marge’s ill,” he informed Aunt Petunia. “Ate a funny
whelk ...”

“Dad!” said Dudley suddenly. “Dad, Harry’s got
something!”

Harry was on the point of unfolding his letter, which
was written on the same heavy parchment as the
envelope, when it was jerked sharply out of his hand
by Uncle Vernon.

“That’s mine\” said Harry, trying to snatch it back.

“Who’d be writing to you?” sneered Uncle Vernon,
shaking the letter open with one hand and glancing at
it. His face went from red to green faster than a set of
traffic lights. And it didn’t stop there. Within seconds
it was the grayish white of old porridge.

“P-P-Petunia!” he gasped.



Page | 38 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




Dudley tried to grab the letter to read it, but Uncle
Vernon held it high out of his reach. Aunt Petunia
took it curiously and read the first line. For a moment
it looked as though she might faint. She clutched her
throat and made a choking noise.

“Vernon! Oh my goodness — Vernon!”

They stared at each other, seeming to have forgotten
that Harry and Dudley were still in the room. Dudley
wasn’t used to being ignored. He gave his father a
sharp tap on the head with his Smelting stick.

“I want to read that letter,” he said loudly.

“I want to read it,” said Harry furiously, “as it’s mine.”

“Get out, both of you,” croaked Uncle Vernon, stuffing
the letter back inside its envelope.

Harry didn’t move.

“I WANT MY LETTER!” he shouted.

“Let me see it!” demanded Dudley.

“OUT!” roared Uncle Vernon, and he took both Harry
and Dudley by the scruffs of their necks and threw
them into the hall, slamming the kitchen door behind
them. Harry and Dudley promptly had a furious but
silent fight over who would listen at the keyhole;
Dudley won, so Harry, his glasses dangling from one
ear, lay flat on his stomach to listen at the crack
between door and floor.

“Vernon,” Aunt Petunia was saying in a quivering
voice, “look at the address — how could they possibly
know where he sleeps? You don’t think they’re
watching the house?”

Page | 39 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Watching — spying — might be following us,”
muttered Uncle Vernon wildly.

“But what should we do, Vernon? Should we write
back? Tell them we don’t want — ”

Harry could see Uncle Vernon’s shiny black shoes
pacing up and down the kitchen.

“No,” he said finally. “No, we’ll ignore it. If they don’t
get an answer. ... Yes, that’s best ... we won’t do
anything. ...”

“But — ”

“I’m not having one in the house, Petunia! Didn’t we
swear when we took him in we’d stamp out that
dangerous nonsense?”

That evening when he got back from work, Uncle
Vernon did something he’d never done before; he
visited Harry in his cupboard.

“Where’s my letter?” said Harry, the moment Uncle
Vernon had squeezed through the door. “Who’s
writing to me?”

“No one. It was addressed to you by mistake,” said
Uncle Vernon shortly. “I have burned it.”

“It was not a mistake,” said Harry angrily, “it had my
cupboard on it.”

“SILENCE!” yelled Uncle Vernon, and a couple of
spiders fell from the ceiling. He took a few deep
breaths and then forced his face into a smile, which
looked quite painful.



Page | 40 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Er — yes, Harry — about this cupboard. Your aunt
and I have been thinking ... you’re really getting a bit
big for it . . . we think it might be nice if you moved
into Dudley’s second bedroom.”

“Why?” said Harry.

“Don’t ask questions!” snapped his uncle. “Take this
stuff upstairs, now.”

The Dursleys’ house had four bedrooms: one for
Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia, one for visitors
(usually Uncle Vernon’s sister, Marge), one where
Dudley slept, and one where Dudley kept all the toys
and things that wouldn’t fit into his first bedroom. It
only took Harry one trip upstairs to move everything
he owned from the cupboard to this room. He sat
down on the bed and stared around him. Nearly
everything in here was broken. The month-old video
camera was lying on top of a small, working tank
Dudley had once driven over the next door neighbor’s
dog; in the corner was Dudley’s first-ever television
set, which he’d put his foot through when his favorite
program had been canceled; there was a large
birdcage, which had once held a parrot that Dudley
had swapped at school for a real air rifle, which was
up on a shelf with the end all bent because Dudley
had sat on it. Other shelves were full of books. They
were the only things in the room that looked as
though they’d never been touched.

From downstairs came the sound of Dudley bawling
at his mother, “I don’t want him in there ... I need
that room ... make him get out. ...”

Harry sighed and stretched out on the bed. Yesterday
he’d have given anything to be up here. Today he’d
rather be back in his cupboard with that letter than
up here without it.

Page | 41 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




Next morning at breakfast, everyone was rather quiet.
Dudley was in shock. He’d screamed, whacked his
father with his Smelting stick, been sick on purpose,
kicked his mother, and thrown his tortoise through
the greenhouse roof, and he still didn’t have his room
back. Harry was thinking about this time yesterday
and bitterly wishing he’d opened the letter in the hall.
Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia kept looking at each
other darkly.

When the mail arrived, Uncle Vernon, who seemed to
be trying to be nice to Harry, made Dudley go and get
it. They heard him banging things with his Smelting
stick all the way down the hall. Then he shouted,
“There’s another one! ‘Mr. H. Potter, The Smallest
Bedroom, 4 Privet Drive — ’ ”

With a strangled cry, Uncle Vernon leapt from his
seat and ran down the hall, Harry right behind him.
Uncle Vernon had to wrestle Dudley to the ground to
get the letter from him, which was made difficult by
the fact that Harry had grabbed Uncle Vernon around
the neck from behind. After a minute of confused
fighting, in which everyone got hit a lot by the
Smelting stick, Uncle Vernon straightened up,
gasping for breath, with Harry’s letter clutched in his
hand.

“Go to your cupboard — I mean, your bedroom,” he
wheezed at Harry. “Dudley — go — just go.”

Harry walked round and round his new room.
Someone knew he had moved out of his cupboard and
they seemed to know he hadn’t received his first
letter. Surely that meant they’d try again? And this
time he’d make sure they didn’t fail. He had a plan.

The repaired alarm clock rang at six o’clock the next
morning. Harry turned it off quickly and dressed

Page | 42 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




silently. He mustn’t wake the Dursleys. He stole
downstairs without turning on any of the lights.

He was going to wait for the postman on the corner of
Privet Drive and get the letters for number four first.
His heart hammered as he crept across the dark hall
toward the front door —

“AAAAARRRGH ! ”

Harry leapt into the air; he’d trodden on something
big and squashy on the doormat — something alive\

Lights clicked on upstairs and to his horror Harry
realized that the big, squashy something had been his
uncle’s face. Uncle Vernon had been lying at the foot
of the front door in a sleeping bag, clearly making
sure that Harry didn’t do exactly what he’d been
trying to do. He shouted at Harry for about half an
hour and then told him to go and make a cup of tea.
Harry shuffled miserably off into the kitchen and by
the time he got back, the mail had arrived, right into
Uncle Vernon’s lap. Harry could see three letters
addressed in green ink.

“I want — ” he began, but Uncle Vernon was tearing
the letters into pieces before his eyes.

Uncle Vernon didn’t go to work that day. He stayed at
home and nailed up the mail slot.

“See,” he explained to Aunt Petunia through a
mouthful of nails, “if they can’t deliver them they’ll
just give up.”

“I’m not sure that’ll work, Vernon.”

“Oh, these peoples minds work in strange ways,
Petunia, they’re not like you and me,” said Uncle

Page | 43 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone -J.K. Rowling




Vernon, trying to knock in a nail with the piece of
fruitcake Aunt Petunia had just brought him.

On Friday, no less than twelve letters arrived for
Harry. As they couldn’t go through the mail slot they
had been pushed under the door, slotted through the
sides, and a few even forced through the small
window in the downstairs bathroom.

Uncle Vernon stayed at home again. After burning all
the letters, he got out a hammer and nails and
boarded up the cracks around the front and back
doors so no one could go out. He hummed “Tiptoe
Through the Tulips” as he worked, and jumped at
small noises.

On Saturday, things began to get out of hand.
Twenty-four letters to Harry found their way into the
house, rolled up and hidden inside each of the two
dozen eggs that their very confused milkman had
handed Aunt Petunia through the living room
window. While Uncle Vernon made furious telephone
calls to the post office and the dairy trying to find
someone to complain to, Aunt Petunia shredded the
letters in her food processor.

“Who on earth wants to talk to you this badly?”
Dudley asked Harry in amazement.



•k k k



On Sunday morning, Uncle Vernon sat down at the
breakfast table looking tired and rather ill, but happy.

“No post on Sundays,” he reminded them cheerfully
as he spread marmalade on his newspapers, “no
damn letters today — ”



Page | 44 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




Something came whizzing down the kitchen chimney
as he spoke and caught him sharply on the back of
the head. Next moment, thirty or forty letters came
pelting out of the fireplace like bullets. The Dursleys
ducked, but Harry leapt into the air trying to catch
one —

“Out! OUT!”

Uncle Vernon seized Harry around the waist and
threw him into the hall. When Aunt Petunia and
Dudley had run out with their arms over their faces,
Uncle Vernon slammed the door shut. They could
hear the letters still streaming into the room,
bouncing off the walls and floor.

“That does it,” said Uncle Vernon, trying to speak
calmly but pulling great tufts out of his mustache at
the same time. “I want you all back here in five
minutes ready to leave. We’re going away. Just pack
some clothes. No arguments!”

He looked so dangerous with half his mustache
missing that no one dared argue. Ten minutes later
they had wrenched their way through the boarded-up
doors and were in the car, speeding toward the
highway. Dudley was sniffling in the back seat; his
father had hit him round the head for holding them
up while he tried to pack his television, VCR, and
computer in his sports bag.

They drove. And they drove. Even Aunt Petunia didn’t
dare ask where they were going. Every now and then
Uncle Vernon would take a sharp turn and drive in
the opposite direction for a while.

“Shake ’em off ... shake ’em off,” he would mutter
whenever he did this.



Page | 45 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




They didn’t stop to eat or drink all day. By nightfall
Dudley was howling. He’d never had such a bad day
in his life. He was hungry, he’d missed five television
programs he’d wanted to see, and he’d never gone so
long without blowing up an alien on his computer.

Uncle Vernon stopped at last outside a gloomy-
looking hotel on the outskirts of a big city. Dudley
and Harry shared a room with twin beds and damp,
musty sheets. Dudley snored but Harry stayed awake,
sitting on the windowsill, staring down at the lights of
passing cars and wondering...

They ate stale cornflakes and cold tinned tomatoes on
toast for breakfast the next day. They had just
finished when the owner of the hotel came over to
their table.

“ ’Scuse me, but is one of you Mr. H. Potter? Only I
got about an ’undred of these at the front desk.”

She held up a letter so they could read the green ink
address:

Mr. H. Potter

Room 1 7

Railview Hotel

Cokeworth

Harry made a grab for the letter but Uncle Vernon
knocked his hand out of the way. The woman stared.

“I’ll take them,” said Uncle Vernon, standing up
quickly and following her from the dining room.

•k k k

Page | 46 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Wouldn’t it be better just to go home, dear?” Aunt
Petunia suggested timidly, hours later, but Uncle
Vernon didn’t seem to hear her. Exactly what he was
looking for, none of them knew. He drove them into
the middle of a forest, got out, looked around, shook
his head, got back in the car, and off they went again.
The same thing happened in the middle of a plowed
field, halfway across a suspension bridge, and at the
top of a multilevel parking garage.

“Daddy’s gone mad, hasn’t he?” Dudley asked Aunt
Petunia dully late that afternoon. Uncle Vernon had
parked at the coast, locked them all inside the car,
and disappeared.

It started to rain. Great drops beat on the roof of the
car. Dudley sniveled.

“It’s Monday,” he told his mother. “The Great
Humberto’s on tonight. I want to stay somewhere with
a television.”

Monday. This reminded Harry of something. If it was
Monday — and you could usually count on Dudley to
know the days of the week, because of television —
then tomorrow, Tuesday, was Harry’s eleventh
birthday. Of course, his birthdays were never exactly
fun — last year, the Dursleys had given him a coat
hanger and a pair of Uncle Vernon’s old socks. Still,
you weren’t eleven every day.

Uncle Vernon was back and he was smiling. He was
also carrying a long, thin package and didn’t answer
Aunt Petunia when she asked what he’d bought.

“Found the perfect place!” he said. “Come on!

Everyone out!”



Page | 47 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




It was very cold outside the car. Uncle Vernon was
pointing at what looked like a large rock way out at
sea. Perched on top of the rock was the most
miserable little shack you could imagine. One thing
was certain, there was no television in there.

“Storm forecast for tonight!” said Uncle Vernon
gleefully, clapping his hands together. “And this
gentleman’s kindly agreed to lend us his boat!”

A toothless old man came ambling up to them,
pointing, with a rather wicked grin, at an old rowboat
bobbing in the iron-gray water below them.

“I’ve already got us some rations,” said Uncle Vernon,
“so all aboard!”

It was freezing in the boat. Icy sea spray and rain
crept down their necks and a chilly wind whipped
their faces. After what seemed like hours they
reached the rock, where Uncle Vernon, slipping and
sliding, led the way to the broken-down house.

The inside was horrible; it smelled strongly of
seaweed, the wind whistled through the gaps in the
wooden walls, and the fireplace was damp and empty.
There were only two rooms.

Uncle Vernon’s rations turned out to be a bag of chips
each and four bananas. He tried to start a fire but the
empty chip bags just smoked and shriveled up.

“Could do with some of those letters now, eh?” he said
cheerfully.

He was in a very good mood. Obviously he thought
nobody stood a chance of reaching them here in a
storm to deliver mail. Harry privately agreed, though
the thought didn’t cheer him up at all.

Page | 48 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




As night fell, the promised storm blew up around
them. Spray from the high waves splattered the walls
of the hut and a fierce wind rattled the filthy
windows. Aunt Petunia found a few moldy blankets in
the second room and made up a bed for Dudley on
the moth-eaten sofa. She and Uncle Vernon went off
to the lumpy bed next door, and Harry was left to find
the softest bit of floor he could and to curl up under
the thinnest, most ragged blanket.

The storm raged more and more ferociously as the
night went on. Harry couldn’t sleep. He shivered and
turned over, trying to get comfortable, his stomach
rumbling with hunger. Dudley’s snores were drowned
by the low rolls of thunder that started near midnight.
The lighted dial of Dudley’s watch, which was
dangling over the edge of the sofa on his fat wrist, told
Harry he’d be eleven in ten minutes’ time. He lay and
watched his birthday tick nearer, wondering if the
Dursleys would remember at all, wondering where the
letter writer was now.

Five minutes to go. Harry heard something creak
outside. He hoped the roof wasn’t going to fall in,
although he might be warmer if it did. Four minutes
to go. Maybe the house in Privet Drive would be so
full of letters when they got back that he’d be able to
steal one somehow.

Three minutes to go. Was that the sea, slapping hard
on the rock like that? And (two minutes to go) what
was that funny crunching noise? Was the rock
crumbling into the sea?

One minute to go and he’d be eleven. Thirty seconds
... twenty ... ten ... nine — maybe he’d wake Dudley
up, just to annoy him — three ... two ... one ...

BOOM.

Page | 49 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




The whole shack shivered and Harry sat bolt upright,
staring at the door. Someone was outside, knocking
to come in.



Page | 50 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling






THE KEEPER OF THE KEYS

BOOM. They knocked again. Dudley jerked awake.

“Where’s the cannon?” he said stupidly.

There was a crash behind them and Uncle Vernon
came skidding into the room. He was holding a rifle in
his hands — now they knew what had been in the
long, thin package he had brought with them.

“Who’s there?” he shouted. “I warn you — I’m armed!”

There was a pause. Then —

SMASH!

The door was hit with such force that it swung clean
off its hinges and with a deafening crash landed flat
on the floor.

A giant of a man was standing in the doorway. His
face was almost completely hidden by a long, shaggy
mane of hair and a wild, tangled beard, but you could

Page | 51 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling



make out his eyes, glinting like black beetles under
all the hair.

The giant squeezed his way into the hut, stooping so
that his head just brushed the ceiling. He bent down,
picked up the door, and fitted it easily back into its
frame. The noise of the storm outside dropped a little.
He turned to look at them all.

“Couldn’t make us a cup o’ tea, could yeh? It’s not
been an easy journey. ...”

He strode over to the sofa where Dudley sat frozen
with fear.

“Budge up, yeh great lump,” said the stranger.

Dudley squeaked and ran to hide behind his mother,
who was crouching, terrified, behind Uncle Vernon.

“An’ here’s Harry!” said the giant.

Harry looked up into the fierce, wild, shadowy face
and saw that the beetle eyes were crinkled in a smile.

“Las’ time I saw you, you was only a baby,” said the
giant. “Yeh look a lot like yer dad, but yeh’ve got yer
mom’s eyes.”

Uncle Vernon made a funny rasping noise.

“I demand that you leave at once, sir!” he said. “You
are breaking and entering!”

“Ah, shut up, Dursley, yeh great prune,” said the
giant; he reached over the back of the sofa, jerked the
gun out of Uncle Vernon’s hands, bent it into a knot
as easily as if it had been made of rubber, and threw
it into a corner of the room.

Page | 52 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




Uncle Vernon made another funny noise, like a
mouse being trodden on.

“Anyway — Harry,” said the giant, turning his back
on the Dursleys, “a very happy birthday to yeh. Got
summat fer yeh here — I mighta sat on it at some
point, but it’ll taste all right.”

From an inside pocket of his black overcoat he pulled
a slightly squashed box. Harry opened it with
trembling fingers. Inside was a large, sticky chocolate
cake with Happy Birthday Harry written on it in green
icing.

Harry looked up at the giant. He meant to say thank
you, but the words got lost on the way to his mouth,
and what he said instead was, “Who are you?”

The giant chuckled.

“True, I haven’t introduced meself. Rubeus Hagrid,
Keeper of Keys and Grounds at Hogwarts.”

He held out an enormous hand and shook Harry’s
whole arm.

“What about that tea then, eh?” he said, rubbing his
hands together. “I’d not say no ter summat stronger if
yeh’ve got it, mind.”

His eyes fell on the empty grate with the shriveled
chip bags in it and he snorted. He bent down over the
fireplace; they couldn’t see what he was doing but
when he drew back a second later, there was a
roaring fire there. It filled the whole damp hut with
flickering light and Harry felt the warmth wash over
him as though he’d sunk into a hot bath.



Page | 53 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




The giant sat back down on the sofa, which sagged
under his weight, and began taking all sorts of things
out of the pockets of his coat: a copper kettle, a
squashy package of sausages, a poker, a teapot,
several chipped mugs, and a bottle of some amber
liquid that he took a swig from before starting to
make tea. Soon the hut was full of the sound and
smell of sizzling sausage. Nobody said a thing while
the giant was working, but as he slid the first six fat,
juicy, slightly burnt sausages from the poker, Dudley
fidgeted a little. Uncle Vernon said sharply, “Don’t
touch anything he gives you, Dudley.”

The giant chuckled darkly.

“Yer great puddin’ of a son don’ need fattenin’
anymore, Dursley, don’ worry.”

He passed the sausages to Harry, who was so hungry
he had never tasted anything so wonderful, but he
still couldn’t take his eyes off the giant. Finally, as
nobody seemed about to explain anything, he said,
“I’m sorry, but I still don’t really know who you are.”

The giant took a gulp of tea and wiped his mouth with
the back of his hand.

“Call me Hagrid,” he said, “everyone does. An’ like I
told yeh, I’m Keeper of Keys at Hogwarts — yeh’ll
know all about Hogwarts, o’ course.”

“Er — no,” said Harry.

Hagrid looked shocked.

“Sorry,” Harry said quickly.

“Sorry?” barked Hagrid, turning to stare at the
Dursleys, who shrank back into the shadows. “It’s

Page | 54 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




them as should be sorry! I knew yeh weren’t gettin’
yer letters but I never thought yeh wouldn’t even
know abou’ Hogwarts, fer cryin’ out loud! Did yeh
never wonder where yer parents learned it all?”

“All what?” asked Harry.

“ALL WHAT?” Hagrid thundered. “Now wait jus’ one
second!”

He had leapt to his feet. In his anger he seemed to fill
the whole hut. The Dursleys were cowering against
the wall.

“Do you mean ter tell me,” he growled at the Dursleys,
“that this boy — this boy! — knows nothin’ abou’ —
about ANYTHING?”

Harry thought this was going a bit far. He had been to
school, after all, and his marks weren’t bad.

“I know some things,” he said. “I can, you know, do
math and stuff.”

But Hagrid simply waved his hand and said, “About
our world, I mean. Your world. My world. Yer parents’
world.”

“What world?”

Hagrid looked as if he was about to explode.
“DURSLEY!” he boomed.

Uncle Vernon, who had gone very pale, whispered
something that sounded like “Mimblewimble.” Hagrid
stared wildly at Harry.



Page | 55 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“But yeh must know about yer mom and dad,” he
said. “I mean, they’re famous. You’re famous.”

“What? My — my mom and dad weren’t famous, were
they?”

“Yeh don’ know ... yeh don’ know ...” Hagrid ran his
fingers through his hair, fixing Harry with a
bewildered stare.

“Yeh don’ know what yeh are?” he said finally.

Uncle Vernon suddenly found his voice.

“Stop!” he commanded. “Stop right there, sir! I forbid
you to tell the boy anything!”

A braver man than Vernon Dursley would have
quailed under the furious look Hagrid now gave him;
when Hagrid spoke, his every syllable trembled with
rage.

“You never told him? Never told him what was in the
letter Dumbledore left fer him? I was there! I saw
Dumbledore leave it, Dursley! An’ you’ve kept it from
him all these years?”

“Kept what from me?” said Harry eagerly.

“STOP! I FORBID YOU!” yelled Uncle Vernon in panic.

Aunt Petunia gave a gasp of horror.

“Ah, go boil yer heads, both of yeh,” said Hagrid.
“Harry — yer a wizard.”

There was silence inside the hut. Only the sea and
the whistling wind could be heard.



Page | 56 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“I’m a what?” gasped Harry.



“A wizard, o’ course,” said Hagrid, sitting back down
on the sofa, which groaned and sank even lower, “an’
a thumpin’ good’un, I’d say, once yeh’ve been trained
up a bit. With a mum an’ dad like yours, what else
would yeh be? An’ I reckon it’s abou’ time yeh read
yer letter.”

Harry stretched out his hand at last to take the
yellowish envelope, addressed in emerald green to Mr.
H. Potter, The Floor, Hut-on-the-Rock, The Sea. He
pulled out the letter and read:

HOGWARTS SCHOOL
o/WITCHCRAFT and WIZARDRY

Headmaster: ALBUS DUMBLEDORE

(Order of Merlin, First Class, Grand Sore., Chf.

Warlock, Supreme Mugwump, International Confed. of
Wizards)

Dear Mr. Potter,

We are pleased to inform you that you have been
accepted at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and
Wizardry. Please find enclosed a list of all necessary
books and equipment.

Term begins on September 1. We await your owl by no
later than July 31.

Yours sincerely,

Minerva McGonagall,

Deputy Headmistress



Page | 57 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




Questions exploded inside Harry’s head like fireworks
and he couldn’t decide which to ask first. After a few
minutes he stammered, “What does it mean, they
await my owl?”

“Gallopin’ Gorgons, that reminds me,” said Hagrid,
clapping a hand to his forehead with enough force to
knock over a cart horse, and from yet another pocket
inside his overcoat he pulled an owl — a real, live,
rather ruffled-looking owl — a long quill, and a roll of
parchment. With his tongue between his teeth he
scribbled a note that Harry could read upside down:

Dear Professor Dumbledore,

Given Harry his letter.

Taking him to buy his things tomorrow.

Weather’s horrible. Hope you’re well.

Hagrid

Hagrid rolled up the note, gave it to the owl, which
clamped it in its beak, went to the door, and threw
the owl out into the storm. Then he came back and
sat down as though this was as normal as talking on
the telephone.

Harry realized his mouth was open and closed it
quickly.

“Where was I?” said Hagrid, but at that moment,

Uncle Vernon, still ashen-faced but looking very
angry, moved into the firelight.

“He’s not going,” he said.

Hagrid grunted.

Page | 58 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“I’d like ter see a great Muggle like you stop him,” he
said.



“A what?” said Harry, interested.

“A Muggle,” said Hagrid, “it’s what we call nonmagic
folk like them. An’ it’s your bad luck you grew up in a
family o’ the biggest Muggles I ever laid eyes on.”

“We swore when we took him in we’d put a stop to
that rubbish,” said Uncle Vernon, “swore we’d stamp
it out of him! Wizard indeed!”

“You knew?” said Harry. “You knew I’m a — a
wizard?”

“Knew!” shrieked Aunt Petunia suddenly. “Knew\ Of
course we knew! How could you not be, my dratted
sister being what she was? Oh, she got a letter just
like that and disappeared off to that — that school —
and came home every vacation with her pockets full
of frog spawn, turning teacups into rats. I was the
only one who saw her for what she was — a freak!

But for my mother and father, oh no, it was Lily this
and Lily that, they were proud of having a witch in
the family!”

She stopped to draw a deep breath and then went
ranting on. It seemed she had been wanting to say all
this for years.

“Then she met that Potter at school and they left and
got married and had you, and of course I knew you’d
be just the same, just as strange, just as — as —
abnormal — and then, if you please, she went and got
herself blown up and we got landed with you!”



Page | 59 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




Harry had gone very white. As soon as he found his
voice he said, “Blown up? You told me they died in a
car crash!”

“CAR CRASH!” roared Hagrid, jumping up so angrily
that the Dursleys scuttled back to their corner. “How
could a car crash kill Lily an’ James Potter? It’s an
outrage! A scandal! Harry Potter not knowin’ his own
story when every kid in our world knows his name!”

“But why? What happened?” Harry asked urgently.

The anger faded from Hagrid’s face. He looked
suddenly anxious.

“I never expected this,” he said, in a low, worried
voice. “I had no idea, when Dumbledore told me there
might be trouble gettin’ hold of yeh, how much yeh
didn’t know. Ah, Harry, I don’ know if I’m the right
person ter tell yeh — but someone’s gotta — yeh can’t
go off ter Hogwarts not knowin’.”

He threw a dirty look at the Dursleys.

“Well, it’s best yeh know as much as I can tell yeh —
mind, I can’t tell yeh everythin’, it’s a great myst’ry,
parts of it. ...”

He sat down, stared into the fire for a few seconds,
and then said, “It begins, I suppose, with — with a
person called — but it’s incredible yeh don’t know his
name, everyone in our world knows — ”

“Who?”

“Well — I don’ like sayin’ the name if I can help it. No
one does.”

“Why not?”

Page | 60 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Gulpin’ gargoyles, Harry, people are still scared.
Blimey, this is difficult. See, there was this wizard
who went ... bad. As bad as you could go. Worse.
Worse than worse. His name was ...”

Hagrid gulped, but no words came out.

“Could you write it down?” Harry suggested.

“Nah — can’t spell it. All right — Voldemort.” Hagrid
shuddered. “Don’ make me say it again. Anyway, this
— this wizard, about twenty years ago now, started
lookin’ fer followers. Got ’em, too — some were afraid,
some just wanted a bit o’ his power, ’cause he was
gettin’ himself power, all right. Dark days, Harry.
Didn’t know who ter trust, didn’t dare get friendly
with strange wizards or witches . . . terrible things
happened. He was takin’ over. ’Course, some stood up
to him — an’ he killed ’em. Horribly. One o’ the only
safe places left was Hogwarts. Reckon Dumbledore’s
the only one You-Know-Who was afraid of. Didn’t dare
try takin’ the school, not jus’ then, anyway.

“Now, yer mum an’ dad were as good a witch an’
wizard as I ever knew. Head boy an’ girl at Hogwarts
in their day! Suppose the myst’ry is why You-Know-
Who never tried to get ’em on his side before . . .
probably knew they were too close ter Dumbledore ter
want anythin’ ter do with the Dark Side.

“Maybe he thought he could persuade ’em ... maybe
he just wanted ’em outta the way. All anyone knows
is, he turned up in the village where you was all
living, on Halloween ten years ago. You was just a
year old. He came ter yer house an’ — an’ — ”

Hagrid suddenly pulled out a very dirty, spotted
handkerchief and blew his nose with a sound like a
foghorn.

Page | 61 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Sorry,” he said. “But it’s that sad — knew yer mum
an’ dad, an’ nicer people yeh couldn’t find — anyway



“You-Know-Who killed ’em. An’ then — an’ this is the
real myst’ry of the thing — he tried to kill you, too.
Wanted ter make a clean job of it, I suppose, or
maybe he just liked killin’ by then. But he couldn’t do
it. Never wondered how you got that mark on yer
forehead? That was no ordinary cut. That’s what yeh
get when a powerful, evil curse touches yeh — took
care of yer mum an’ dad an’ yer house, even — but it
didn’t work on you, an’ that’s why yer famous, Harry.
No one ever lived after he decided ter kill ’em, no one
except you, an’ he’d killed some o’ the best witches
an’ wizards of the age — the McKinnons, the Bones,
the Prewetts — an’ you was only a baby, an’ you
lived.”

Something very painful was going on in Harry’s mind.
As Hagrid’s story came to a close, he saw again the
blinding flash of green light, more clearly than he had
ever remembered it before — and he remembered
something else, for the first time in his life: a high,
cold, cruel laugh.

Hagrid was watching him sadly.

“Took yeh from the ruined house myself, on
Dumbledore’s orders. Brought yeh ter this lot ...”

“Load of old tosh,” said Uncle Vernon. Harry jumped;
he had almost forgotten that the Dursleys were there.
Uncle Vernon certainly seemed to have got back his
courage. He was glaring at Hagrid and his fists were
clenched.

“Now, you listen here, boy,” he snarled, “I accept
there’s something strange about you, probably

Page | 62 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




nothing a good beating wouldn’t have cured — and as
for all this about your parents, well, they were
weirdos, no denying it, and the world’s better off
without them in my opinion — asked for all they got,
getting mixed up with these wizarding types — just
what I expected, always knew they’d come to a sticky
end — ”

But at that moment, Hagrid leapt from the sofa and
drew a battered pink umbrella from inside his coat.
Pointing this at Uncle Vernon like a sword, he said,
“I’m warning you, Dursley — I’m warning you — one
more word ...”

In danger of being speared on the end of an umbrella
by a bearded giant, Uncle Vernon’s courage failed
again; he flattened himself against the wall and fell
silent.

“That’s better,” said Hagrid, breathing heavily and
sitting back down on the sofa, which this time sagged
right down to the floor.

Harry, meanwhile, still had questions to ask,
hundreds of them.

“But what happened to Vol-, sorry — I mean, You-
Know-Who?”

“Good question, Harry. Disappeared. Vanished. Same
night he tried ter kill you. Makes yeh even more
famous. That’s the biggest myst’ry, see ... he was
gettin’ more an’ more powerful — why’d he go?

“Some say he died. Codswallop, in my opinion. Dunno
if he had enough human left in him to die. Some say
he’s still out there, bidin’ his time, like, but I don’
believe it. People who was on his side came back ter



Page | 63 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




ours. Some of ’em came outta kinda trances. Don’
reckon they could’ve done if he was cornin’ back.

“Most of us reckon he’s still out there somewhere but
lost his powers. Too weak to carry on. ’Cause
somethin’ about you finished him, Harry. There was
somethin’ goin’ on that night he hadn’t counted on —
/ dunno what it was, no one does — but somethin’
about you stumped him, all right.”

Hagrid looked at Harry with warmth and respect
blazing in his eyes, but Harry, instead of feeling
pleased and proud, felt quite sure there had been a
horrible mistake. A wizard? Him? How could he
possibly be? He’d spent his life being clouted by
Dudley, and bullied by Aunt Petunia and Uncle
Vernon; if he was really a wizard, why hadn’t they
been turned into warty toads every time they’d tried
to lock him in his cupboard? If he’d once defeated the
greatest sorcerer in the world, how come Dudley had
always been able to kick him around like a football?

“Hagrid,” he said quietly, “I think you must have
made a mistake. I don’t think I can be a wizard.”

To his surprise, Hagrid chuckled.

“Not a wizard, eh? Never made things happen when
you was scared or angry?”

Harry looked into the fire. Now he came to think
about it . . . every odd thing that had ever made his
aunt and uncle furious with him had happened when
he, Harry, had been upset or angry ... chased by
Dudley’s gang, he had somehow found himself out of
their reach . . . dreading going to school with that
ridiculous haircut, he’d managed to make it grow
back . . . and the very last time Dudley had hit him,



Page | 64 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




hadn’t he got his revenge, without even realizing he
was doing it? Hadn’t he set a boa constrictor on him?



Harry looked back at Hagrid, smiling, and saw that
Hagrid was positively beaming at him.

“See?” said Hagrid. “Harry Potter, not a wizard — you
wait, you’ll be right famous at Hogwarts.”

But Uncle Vernon wasn’t going to give in without a
fight.

“Haven’t I told you he’s not going?” he hissed. “He’s
going to Stonewall High and he’ll be grateful for it. I’ve
read those letters and he needs all sorts of rubbish —
spell books and wands and — ”

“If he wants ter go, a great Muggle like you won’t stop
him,” growled Hagrid. “Stop Lily an’ James Potter’s
son goin’ ter Hogwarts! Yer mad. His name’s been
down ever since he was born. He’s off ter the finest
school of witchcraft and wizardry in the world. Seven
years there and he won’t know himself. He’ll be with
youngsters of his own sort, fer a change, an’ he’ll be
under the greatest headmaster Hogwarts ever had,
Albus Dumbled — ”

“I AM NOT PAYING FOR SOME CRACKPOT OLD
FOOL TO TEACH HIM MAGIC TRICKS!” yelled Uncle
Vernon.

But he had finally gone too far. Hagrid seized his
umbrella and whirled it over his head, “NEVER — ” he
thundered, “— INSULT — ALBUS — DUMBLEDORE
— IN — FRONT — OF — ME!”

He brought the umbrella swishing down through the
air to point at Dudley — there was a flash of violet
light, a sound like a firecracker, a sharp squeal, and

Page | 65 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




the next second, Dudley was dancing on the spot with
his hands clasped over his fat bottom, howling in
pain. When he turned his back on them, Harry saw a
curly pig’s tail poking through a hole in his trousers.

Uncle Vernon roared. Pulling Aunt Petunia and
Dudley into the other room, he cast one last terrified
look at Hagrid and slammed the door behind them.

Hagrid looked down at his umbrella and stroked his
beard.

“Shouldn’ta lost me temper,” he said ruefully, “but it
didn’t work anyway. Meant ter turn him into a pig,
but I suppose he was so much like a pig anyway there
wasn’t much left ter do.”

He cast a sideways look at Harry under his bushy
eyebrows.

“Be grateful if yeh didn’t mention that ter anyone at
Hogwarts,” he said. “I’m — er — not supposed ter do
magic, strictly speakin’. I was allowed ter do a bit ter
follow yeh an’ get yer letters to yeh an’ stuff — one o’
the reasons I was so keen ter take on the job — ”

“Why aren’t you supposed to do magic?” asked Harry.

“Oh, well — I was at Hogwarts meself but I — er —
got expelled, ter tell yeh the truth. In me third year.
They snapped me wand in half an’ everything. But
Dumbledore let me stay on as gamekeeper. Great
man, Dumbledore.”

“Why were you expelled?”

“It’s gettin’ late and we’ve got lots ter do tomorrow,”
said Hagrid loudly. “Gotta get up ter town, get all yer
books an’ that.”

Page | 66 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




He took off his thick black coat and threw it to Harry.



“You can kip under that,” he said. “Don’ mind if it
wriggles a bit, I think I still got a couple o’ dormice in
one o’ the pockets.”



Page | 67 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling





DIAGON ALLY

Harry woke early the next morning. Although he
could tell it was daylight, he kept his eyes shut tight.

“It was a dream,” he told himself firmly. “I dreamed a
giant called Hagrid came to tell me I was going to a
school for wizards. When I open my eyes I’ll be at
home in my cupboard.”

There was suddenly a loud tapping noise.

And there’s Aunt Petunia knocking on the door, Harry
thought, his heart sinking. But he still didn’t open his
eyes. It had been such a good dream.

Tap. Tap. Tap.

“All right,” Harry mumbled, “I’m getting up.”

He sat up and Hagrid ’s heavy coat fell off him. The
hut was full of sunlight, the storm was over, Hagrid
himself was asleep on the collapsed sofa, and there



Page | 68 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling



was an owl rapping its claw on the window, a
newspaper held in its beak.

Harry scrambled to his feet, so happy he felt as
though a large balloon was swelling inside him. He
went straight to the window and jerked it open. The
owl swooped in and dropped the newspaper on top of
Hagrid, who didn’t wake up. The owl then fluttered
onto the floor and began to attack Hagrid ’s coat.

“Don’t do that.”

Harry tried to wave the owl out of the way, but it
snapped its beak fiercely at him and carried on
savaging the coat.

“Hagrid!” said Harry loudly. “There’s an owl — ”

“Pay him,” Hagrid grunted into the sofa.

“What?”

“He wants payin’ fer deliverin’ the paper. Look in the
pockets.”

Hagrid ’s coat seemed to be made of nothing but
pockets — bunches of keys, slug pellets, balls of
string, peppermint humbugs, teabags ... finally, Harry
pulled out a handful of strange-looking coins.

“Give him five Knuts,” said Hagrid sleepily.

“Knuts?”

“The little bronze ones.”

Harry counted out five little bronze coins, and the owl
held out his leg so Harry could put the money into a



Page | 69 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




small leather pouch tied to it. Then he flew off
through the open window.

Hagrid yawned loudly, sat up, and stretched.

“Best be off, Harry, lots ter do today, gotta get up ter
London an’ buy all yer stuff fer school.”

Harry was turning over the wizard coins and looking
at them. He had just thought of something that made
him feel as though the happy balloon inside him had
got a puncture.

“Urn — Hagrid?”

“Mm?” said Hagrid, who was pulling on his huge
boots.

“I haven’t got any money — and you heard Uncle
Vernon last night ... he won’t pay for me to go and
learn magic.”

“Don’t worry about that,” said Hagrid, standing up
and scratching his head. “D’yeh think yer parents
didn’t leave yeh anything?”

“But if their house was destroyed — ”

“They didn’ keep their gold in the house, boy! Nah,
first stop fer us is Gringotts. Wizards’ bank. Have a
sausage, they’re not bad cold — an’ I wouldn’ say no
teh a bit o’ yer birthday cake, neither.”

“Wizards have banks?”

“Just the one. Gringotts. Run by goblins.”

Harry dropped the bit of sausage he was holding.



Page | 70 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Goblins?”



“Yeah — so yeh’d be mad ter try an’ rob it, I’ll tell yeh
that. Never mess with goblins, Harry. Gringotts is the
safest place in the world fer anything yeh want ter
keep safe — ’cept maybe Hogwarts. As a matter o’
fact, I gotta visit Gringotts anyway Fer Dumbledore.
Hogwarts business.” Hagrid drew himself up proudly.
“He usually gets me ter do important stuff fer him.
Fetchin’ you — gettin’ things from Gringotts — knows
he can trust me, see.

“Got everythin’? Come on, then.”

Harry followed Hagrid out onto the rock. The sky was
quite clear now and the sea gleamed in the sunlight.
The boat Uncle Vernon had hired was still there, with
a lot of water in the bottom after the storm.

“How did you get here?” Harry asked, looking around
for another boat.

“Flew,” said Hagrid.

“Flew?”

“Yeah — but we’ll go back in this. Not s’pposed ter
use magic now I’ve got yeh.”

They settled down in the boat, Harry still staring at
Hagrid, trying to imagine him flying.

“Seems a shame ter row, though,” said Hagrid, giving
Harry another of his sideways looks. “If I was ter — er
— speed things up a bit, would yeh mind not
mentionin’ it at Hogwarts?”

“Of course not,” said Harry, eager to see more magic.
Hagrid pulled out the pink umbrella again, tapped it

Page | 71 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




twice on the side of the boat, and they sped off toward
land.

“Why would you be mad to try and rob Gringotts?”
Harry asked.

“Spells — enchantments,” said Hagrid, unfolding his
newspaper as he spoke. “They say there’s dragons
guardin’ the high-security vaults. And then yeh gotta
find yer way — Gringotts is hundreds of miles under
London, see. Deep under the Underground. Yeh’d die
of hunger tryin’ ter get out, even if yeh did manage ter
get yer hands on summat.”

Harry sat and thought about this while Hagrid read
his newspaper, the Daily Prophet Harry had learned
from Uncle Vernon that people liked to be left alone
while they did this, but it was very difficult, he’d
never had so many questions in his life.

“Ministry o’ Magic messin’ things up as usual,” Hagrid
muttered, turning the page.

“There’s a Ministry of Magic?” Harry asked, before he
could stop himself.

“ ’Course,” said Hagrid. “They wanted Dumbledore fer
Minister, o’ course, but he’d never leave Hogwarts, so
old Cornelius Fudge got the job. Bungler if ever there
was one. So he pelts Dumbledore with owls every
morning, askin’ fer advice.”

“But what does a Ministry of Magic do?”

“Well, their main job is to keep it from the Muggles
that there’s still witches an’ wizards up an’ down the
country.”

“Why?”

Page | 72 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Why? Blimey, Harry, everyone ’d be wantin’ magic
solutions to their problems. Nah, we’re best left
alone.”

At this moment the boat bumped gently into the
harbor wall. Hagrid folded up his newspaper, and
they clambered up the stone steps onto the street.

Passersby stared a lot at Hagrid as they walked
through the little town to the station. Harry couldn’t
blame them. Not only was Hagrid twice as tall as
anyone else, he kept pointing at perfectly ordinary
things like parking meters and saying loudly, “See
that, Harry? Things these Muggles dream up, eh?”

“Hagrid,” said Harry, panting a bit as he ran to keep
up, “did you say there are dragons at Gringotts?”

“Well, so they say,” said Hagrid. “Crikey, I’d like a
dragon.”

“You’d like one?”

“Wanted one ever since I was a kid — here we go.”

They had reached the station. There was a train to
London in five minutes’ time. Hagrid, who didn’t
understand “Muggle money,” as he called it, gave the
bills to Harry so he could buy their tickets.

People stared more than ever on the train. Hagrid
took up two seats and sat knitting what looked like a
canary-yellow circus tent.

“Still got yer letter, Harry?” he asked as he counted
stitches.

Harry took the parchment envelope out of his pocket.



Page | 73 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Good,” said Hagrid. “There’s a list there of everything
yeh need.”



Harry unfolded a second piece of paper he hadn’t
noticed the night before, and read:

HOGWARTS SCHOOL
o/WITCHCRAFT and WIZARDRY

UNIFORM



First-year students will require:

1 . Three sets of plain work robes (black)

2. One plain pointed hat (black) for day wear

3. One pair of protective gloves (dragon hide or
similar)

4. One winter cloak (black, silver fastenings)

Please note that all pupils’ clothes should carry name
tags



COURSE BOOKS



All students should have a copy of each of the
following:

The Standard Book of Spells (Grade 1) by Miranda
Goshawk

A History of Magic by Bathilda Bagshot

Magical Theory by Adalbert Waffling

A Beginners’ Guide to Transfiguration by Emeric
Switch

Page | 74 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




One Thousand Magical Herbs and Fungi by Phyllida
Spore

Magical Drafts and Potions by Arsenius Jigger

Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them by Newt
Scamander

The Dark Forces: A Guide to Self-Protection by Quentin
Trimble



OTHER EQUIPMENT



1 wand

1 cauldron (pewter, standard size 2)

1 set glass or crystal phials
1 telescope
1 set brass scales

Students may also bring an owl OR a cat OR a toad

PARENTS ARE REMINDED THAT FIRST YEARS ARE
NOT ALLOWED THEIR OWN BROOMSTICKS

“Can we buy all this in London?” Harry wondered
aloud.

“If yeh know where to go,” said Hagrid.

Harry had never been to London before. Although
Hagrid seemed to know where he was going, he was
obviously not used to getting there in an ordinary
way. He got stuck in the ticket barrier on the
Underground, and complained loudly that the seats
were too small and the trains too slow.

Page | 75 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“I don’t know how the Muggles manage without
magic,” he said as they climbed a broken-down
escalator that led up to a bustling road lined with
shops.

Hagrid was so huge that he parted the crowd easily;
all Harry had to do was keep close behind him. They
passed book shops and music stores, hamburger
restaurants and cinemas, but nowhere that looked as
if it could sell you a magic wand. This was just an
ordinary street full of ordinary people. Could there
really be piles of wizard gold buried miles beneath
them? Were there really shops that sold spell books
and broomsticks? Might this not all be some huge
joke that the Dursleys had cooked up? If Harry hadn’t
known that the Dursleys had no sense of humor, he
might have thought so; yet somehow, even though
everything Hagrid had told him so far was
unbelievable, Harry couldn’t help trusting him.

“This is it,” said Hagrid, coming to a halt, “the Leaky
Cauldron. It’s a famous place.”

It was a tiny, grubby-looking pub. If Hagrid hadn’t
pointed it out, Harry wouldn’t have noticed it was
there. The people hurrying by didn’t glance at it. Their
eyes slid from the big book shop on one side to the
record shop on the other as if they couldn’t see the
Leaky Cauldron at all. In fact, Harry had the most
peculiar feeling that only he and Hagrid could see it.
Before he could mention this, Hagrid had steered him
inside.

For a famous place, it was very dark and shabby. A
few old women were sitting in a corner, drinking tiny
glasses of sherry. One of them was smoking a long
pipe. A little man in a top hat was talking to the old
bartender, who was quite bald and looked like a
toothless walnut. The low buzz of chatter stopped
Page | 76 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




when they walked in. Everyone seemed to know
Hagrid; they waved and smiled at him, and the
bartender reached for a glass, saying, “The usual,
Hagrid?”

“Can’t, Tom, I’m on Hogwarts business,” said Hagrid,
clapping his great hand on Harry’s shoulder and
making Harry’s knees buckle.

“Good Lord,” said the bartender, peering at Harry, “is
this — can this be — ?”

The Leaky Cauldron had suddenly gone completely
still and silent.

“Bless my soul,” whispered the old bartender, “Harry
Potter ... what an honor.”

He hurried out from behind the bar, rushed toward
Harry and seized his hand, tears in his eyes.

“Welcome back, Mr. Potter, welcome back.”

Harry didn’t know what to say. Everyone was looking
at him. The old woman with the pipe was puffing on it
without realizing it had gone out. Hagrid was
beaming.

Then there was a great scraping of chairs and the
next moment, Harry found himself shaking hands
with everyone in the Leaky Cauldron.

“Doris Crockford, Mr. Potter, can’t believe I’m meeting
you at last.”

“So proud, Mr. Potter, I’m just so proud.”

“Always wanted to shake your hand — I’m all of a
flutter.”

Page | 77 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Delighted, Mr. Potter, just can’t tell you, Diggle’s the
name, Dedalus Diggle.”

“I’ve seen you before!” said Harry, as Dedalus Diggle’s
top hat fell off in his excitement. “You bowed to me
once in a shop.”

“He remembers!” cried Dedalus Diggle, looking
around at everyone. “Did you hear that? He
remembers me!”

Harry shook hands again and again — Doris
Crockford kept coming back for more.

A pale young man made his way forward, very
nervously. One of his eyes was twitching.

“Professor Quirrell!” said Hagrid. “Harry, Professor
Quirrell will be one of your teachers at Hogwarts.”

“P-P-Potter,” stammered Professor Quirrell, grasping
Harry’s hand, “c-can’t t-tell you how p-pleased I am to
meet you.”

“What sort of magic do you teach, Professor Quirrell?”

“D-Defense Against the D-D-Dark Arts,” muttered
Professor Quirrell, as though he’d rather not think
about it. “N-not that you n-need it, eh, P-P-Potter?”

He laughed nervously. “You’ll be g-getting all your
equipment, I suppose? I’ve g-got to p-pick up a new b-
book on vampires, m-myself.” He looked terrified at
the very thought.

But the others wouldn’t let Professor Quirrell keep
Harry to himself. It took almost ten minutes to get
away from them all. At last, Hagrid managed to make
himself heard over the babble.



Page | 78 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Must get on — lots ter buy. Come on, Harry.”

Doris Crockford shook Harry’s hand one last time,
and Hagrid led them through the bar and out into a
small, walled courtyard, where there was nothing but
a trash can and a few weeds.

Hagrid grinned at Harry.

“Told yeh, didn’t I? Told yeh you was famous. Even
Professor Quirrell was tremblin’ ter meet yeh — mind
you, he’s usually tremblin’.”

“Is he always that nervous?”

“Oh, yeah. Poor bloke. Brilliant mind. He was fine
while he was studyin’ outta books but then he took a
year off ter get some firsthand experience. ... They say
he met vampires in the Black Forest, and there was a
nasty bit o’ trouble with a hag — never been the same
since. Scared of the students, scared of his own
subject — now, where’s me umbrella?”

Vampires? Hags? Harry’s head was swimming.

Hagrid, meanwhile, was counting bricks in the wall
above the trash can.

“Three up ... two across ...” he muttered. “Right,
stand back, Harry.”

He tapped the wall three times with the point of his
umbrella.

The brick he had touched quivered — it wriggled — in
the middle, a small hole appeared — it grew wider
and wider — a second later they were facing an
archway large enough even for Hagrid, an archway
onto a cobbled street that twisted and turned out of
sight.

Page | 79 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Welcome,” said Hagrid, “to Diagon Alley.”

He grinned at Harry’s amazement. They stepped
through the archway. Harry looked quickly over his
shoulder and saw the archway shrink instantly back
into solid wall.

The sun shone brightly on a stack of cauldrons
outside the nearest shop. Cauldrons — All Sizes —
Copper, Brass, Pewter, Silver — Self-Stirring —
Collapsible, said a sign hanging over them.

“Yeah, you’ll be needin’ one,” said Hagrid, “but we
gotta get yer money first.”

Harry wished he had about eight more eyes. He
turned his head in every direction as they walked up
the street, trying to look at everything at once: the
shops, the things outside them, the people doing their
shopping. A plump woman outside an Apothecary
was shaking her head as they passed, saying,

“Dragon liver, sixteen Sickles an ounce, they’re mad.”

A low, soft hooting came from a dark shop with a sign
saying Eeylops Owl Emporium — Tawny, Screech,
Barn, Brown, and Snowy. Several boys of about
Harry’s age had their noses pressed against a window
with broomsticks in it. “Look,” Harry heard one of
them say, “the new Nimbus Two Thousand — fastest
ever — ” There were shops selling robes, shops selling
telescopes and strange silver instruments Harry had
never seen before, windows stacked with barrels of
bat spleens and eels’ eyes, tottering piles of spell
books, quills, and rolls of parchment, potion bottles,
globes of the moon. ...

“Gringotts,” said Hagrid.



Page | 80 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




They had reached a snowy white building that
towered over the other little shops. Standing beside
its burnished bronze doors, wearing a uniform of
scarlet and gold, was —

“Yeah, that’s a goblin,” said Hagrid quietly as they
walked up the white stone steps toward him. The
goblin was about a head shorter than Harry. He had a
swarthy, clever face, a pointed beard and, Harry
noticed, very long fingers and feet. He bowed as they
walked inside. Now they were facing a second pair of
doors, silver this time, with words engraved upon
them:

Enter, stranger, but take heed

Of what awaits the sin of greed,

For those who take, but do not earn,

Must pay most dearly in their turn.

So if you seek beneath our floors

A treasure that was never yours,

Thief, you have been warned, beware

Of finding more than treasure there.

“Like I said, yeh’d be mad ter try an’ rob it,” said
Hagrid.

A pair of goblins bowed them through the silver doors
and they were in a vast marble hall. About a hundred
more goblins were sitting on high stools behind a long
counter, scribbling in large ledgers, weighing coins in
brass scales, examining precious stones through
eyeglasses. There were too many doors to count
Page | 81 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




leading off the hall, and yet more goblins were
showing people in and out of these. Hagrid and Harry
made for the counter.

“Morning,” said Hagrid to a free goblin. “We’ve come
ter take some money outta Mr. Harry Potter’s safe.”

“You have his key, sir?”

“Got it here somewhere,” said Hagrid, and he started
emptying his pockets onto the counter, scattering a
handful of moldy dog biscuits over the goblins book of
numbers. The goblin wrinkled his nose. Harry
watched the goblin on their right weighing a pile of
rubies as big as glowing coals.

“Got it,” said Hagrid at last, holding up a tiny golden
key.

The goblin looked at it closely.

“That seems to be in order.”

“An’ I’ve also got a letter here from Professor
Dumbledore,” said Hagrid importantly, throwing out
his chest. “It’s about the You-Know-What in vault
seven hundred and thirteen.”

The goblin read the letter carefully.

“Very well,” he said, handing it back to Hagrid, “I will
have someone take you down to both vaults.
Griphook!”

Griphook was yet another goblin. Once Hagrid had
crammed all the dog biscuits back inside his pockets,
he and Harry followed Griphook toward one of the
doors leading off the hall.



Page | 82 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“What’s the You-Know-What in vault seven hundred
and thirteen?” Harry asked.

“Can’t tell yeh that,” said Hagrid mysteriously. “Very
secret. Hogwarts business. Dumbledore’s trusted me.
More’n my job’s worth ter tell yeh that.”

Griphook held the door open for them. Harry, who
had expected more marble, was surprised. They were
in a narrow stone passageway lit with flaming
torches. It sloped steeply downward and there were
little railway tracks on the floor. Griphook whistled
and a small cart came hurtling up the tracks toward
them. They climbed in — Hagrid with some difficulty
— and were off.

At first they just hurtled through a maze of twisting
passages. Harry tried to remember, left, right, right,
left, middle fork, right, left, but it was impossible. The
rattling cart seemed to know its own way, because
Griphook wasn’t steering.

Harry’s eyes stung as the cold air rushed past them,
but he kept them wide open. Once, he thought he saw
a burst of fire at the end of a passage and twisted
around to see if it was a dragon, but too late — they
plunged even deeper, passing an underground lake
where huge stalactites and stalagmites grew from the
ceiling and floor.

“I never know,” Harry called to Hagrid over the noise
of the cart, “what’s the difference between a
stalagmite and a stalactite?”

“Stalagmite’s got an ‘m’ in it,” said Hagrid. “An’ don’
ask me questions just now, I think I’m gonna be
sick.”



Page | 83 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




He did look very green, and when the cart stopped at
last beside a small door in the passage wall, Hagrid
got out and had to lean against the wall to stop his
knees from trembling.

Griphook unlocked the door. A lot of green smoke
came billowing out, and as it cleared, Harry gasped.
Inside were mounds of gold coins. Columns of silver.
Heaps of little bronze Knuts.

“All yours,” smiled Hagrid.

All Harry’s — it was incredible. The Dursleys couldn’t
have known about this or they’d have had it from him
faster than blinking. How often had they complained
how much Harry cost them to keep? And all the time
there had been a small fortune belonging to him,
buried deep under London.

Hagrid helped Harry pile some of it into a bag.

“The gold ones are Galleons,” he explained.

“Seventeen silver Sickles to a Galleon and twenty-nine
Knuts to a Sickle, it’s easy enough. Right, that should
be enough fer a couple o’ terms, we’ll keep the rest
safe for yeh.” He turned to Griphook. “Vault seven
hundred and thirteen now, please, and can we go
more slowly?”

“One speed only,” said Griphook.

They were going even deeper now and gathering
speed. The air became colder and colder as they
hurtled round tight corners. They went rattling over
an underground ravine, and Harry leaned over the
side to try to see what was down at the dark bottom,
but Hagrid groaned and pulled him back by the scruff
of his neck.



Page | 84 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




Vault seven hundred and thirteen had no keyhole.

“Stand back,” said Griphook importantly. He stroked
the door gently with one of his long fingers and it
simply melted away.

“If anyone but a Gringotts goblin tried that, they’d be
sucked through the door and trapped in there,” said
Griphook.

“How often do you check to see if anyone’s inside?”
Harry asked.

“About once every ten years,” said Griphook with a
rather nasty grin.

Something really extraordinary had to be inside this
top security vault, Harry was sure, and he leaned
forward eagerly, expecting to see fabulous jewels at
the very least — but at first he thought it was empty.
Then he noticed a grubby little package wrapped up
in brown paper lying on the floor. Hagrid picked it up
and tucked it deep inside his coat. Harry longed to
know what it was, but knew better than to ask.

“Come on, back in this infernal cart, and don’t talk to
me on the way back, it’s best if I keep me mouth
shut,” said Hagrid.



One wild cart ride later they stood blinking in the
sunlight outside Gringotts. Harry didn’t know where
to run first now that he had a bag full of money. He
didn’t have to know how many Galleons there were to
a pound to know that he was holding more money
than he’d had in his whole life — more money than
even Dudley had ever had.



Page | 85 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Might as well get yer uniform,” said Hagrid, nodding
toward Madam Malkin’s Robes for All Occasions.
“Listen, Harry, would yeh mind if I slipped off fer a
pick-me-up in the Leaky Cauldron? I hate them
Gringotts carts.” He did still look a bit sick, so Harry
entered Madam Malkin’s shop alone, feeling nervous.

Madam Malkin was a squat, smiling witch dressed all
in mauve.

“Hogwarts, dear?” she said, when Harry started to
speak. “Got the lot here — another young man being
fitted up just now, in fact.”

In the back of the shop, a boy with a pale, pointed
face was standing on a footstool while a second witch
pinned up his long black robes. Madam Malkin stood
Harry on a stool next to him, slipped a long robe over
his head, and began to pin it to the right length.

“Hello,” said the boy, “Hogwarts, too?”

“Yes,” said Harry.

“My father’s next door buying my books and mother’s
up the street looking at wands,” said the boy. He had
a bored, drawling voice. “Then I’m going to drag them
off to look at racing brooms. I don’t see why first years
can’t have their own. I think I’ll bully father into
getting me one and I’ll smuggle it in somehow.”

Harry was strongly reminded of Dudley.

“Have you got your own broom?” the boy went on.

“No,” said Harry.

“Play Quidditch at all?”



Page | 86 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“No,” Harry said again, wondering what on earth
Quidditch could be.

“ I do — Father says it’s a crime if I’m not picked to
play for my House, and I must say, I agree. Know
what House you 11 be in yet?”

“No,” said Harry, feeling more stupid by the minute.

“Well, no one really knows until they get there, do
they, but I know I’ll be in Slytherin, all our family
have been — imagine being in Hufflepuff, I think I’d
leave, wouldn’t you?”

“Mmm,” said Harry, wishing he could say something a
bit more interesting.

“I say, look at that man!” said the boy suddenly,
nodding toward the front window. Hagrid was
standing there, grinning at Harry and pointing at two
large ice creams to show he couldn’t come in.

“That’s Hagrid,” said Harry, pleased to know
something the boy didn’t. “He works at Hogwarts.”

“Oh,” said the boy, “I’ve heard of him. He’s a sort of
servant, isn’t he?”

“He’s the gamekeeper,” said Harry. He was liking the
boy less and less every second.

“Yes, exactly. I heard he’s a sort of savage — lives in a
hut on the school grounds and every now and then he
gets drunk, tries to do magic, and ends up setting fire
to his bed.”

“I think he’s brilliant,” said Harry coldly.



Page | 87 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Do you?” said the boy, with a slight sneer. “Why is he
with you? Where are your parents?”

“They’re dead,” said Harry shortly. He didn’t feel
much like going into the matter with this boy.

“Oh, sorry,” said the other, not sounding sorry at all.
“But they were our kind, weren’t they?”

“They were a witch and wizard, if that’s what you
mean.”

“I really don’t think they should let the other sort in,
do you? They’re just not the same, they’ve never been
brought up to know our ways. Some of them have
never even heard of Hogwarts until they get the letter,
imagine. I think they should keep it in the old
wizarding families. What’s your surname, anyway?”

But before Harry could answer, Madam Malkin said,
“That’s you done, my dear,” and Harry, not sorry for
an excuse to stop talking to the boy, hopped down
from the footstool.

“Well, I’ll see you at Hogwarts, I suppose,” said the
drawling boy.

Harry was rather quiet as he ate the ice cream Hagrid
had bought him (chocolate and raspberry with
chopped nuts).

“What’s up?” said Hagrid.

“Nothing,” Harry lied. They stopped to buy parchment
and quills. Harry cheered up a bit when he found a
bottle of ink that changed color as you wrote. When
they had left the shop, he said, “Hagrid, what’s
Quidditch?”



Page | 88 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Blimey, Harry, I keep forgettin’ how little yeh know —
not knowin’ about Quidditch!”

“Don’t make me feel worse,” said Harry. He told
Hagrid about the pale boy in Madam Malkin’s.

“ — and he said people from Muggle families shouldn’t
even be allowed in — ”

“Yer not from a Muggle family. If he’d known who yeh
were — he’s grown up knowin’ yer name if his
parents are wizardin’ folk. You saw what everyone in
the Leaky Cauldron was like when they saw yeh.
Anyway, what does he know about it, some o’ the best
I ever saw were the only ones with magic in ’em in a
long line o’ Muggles — look at yer mum! Look what
she had fer a sister!”

“So what is Quidditch?”

“It’s our sport. Wizard sport. It’s like — like soccer in
the Muggle world — everyone follows Quidditch —
played up in the air on broomsticks and there’s four
balls — sorta hard ter explain the rules.”

“And what are Slytherin and Hufflepuff?”

“School Houses. There’s four. Everyone says
Hufflepuff are a lot o’ duffers, but — ”

“I bet I’m in Hufflepuff,” said Harry gloomily.

“Better Hufflepuff than Slytherin,” said Hagrid darkly.
“There’s not a single witch or wizard who went bad
who wasn’t in Slytherin. You-Know-Who was one.”

“Vol-, sorry — You-Know-Who was at Hogwarts?”

“Years an’ years ago,” said Hagrid.

Page | 89 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




They bought Harry’s school books in a shop called
Flourish and Blotts where the shelves were stacked to
the ceiling with books as large as paving stones
bound in leather; books the size of postage stamps in
covers of silk; books full of peculiar symbols and a
few books with nothing in them at all. Even Dudley,
who never read anything, would have been wild to get
his hands on some of these. Hagrid almost had to
drag Harry away from Curses and Counter-curses
(Bewitch Your Friends and Befuddle Your Enemies
with the Latest Revenges: Hair Loss, Jelly-Legs,
Tongue-Tying and Much, Much More) by Professor
Vindictus Viridian.

“I was trying to find out how to curse Dudley.”

“I’m not sayin’ that’s not a good idea, but yer not ter
use magic in the Muggle world except in very special
circumstances,” said Hagrid. “An’ anyway, yeh
couldn’ work any of them curses yet, yeh’ll need a lot
more study before yeh get ter that level.”

Hagrid wouldn’t let Harry buy a solid gold cauldron,
either (“It says pewter on yer list”), but they got a nice
set of scales for weighing potion ingredients and a
collapsible brass telescope. Then they visited the
Apothecary, which was fascinating enough to make
up for its horrible smell, a mixture of bad eggs and
rotted cabbages. Barrels of slimy stuff stood on the
floor; jars of herbs, dried roots, and bright powders
lined the walls; bundles of feathers, strings of fangs,
and snarled claws hung from the ceiling. While
Hagrid asked the man behind the counter for a
supply of some basic potion ingredients for Harry,
Harry himself examined silver unicorn horns at
twenty-one Galleons each and minuscule, glittery-
black beetle eyes (five Knuts a scoop).



Page | 90 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




Outside the Apothecary, Hagrid checked Harry’s list
again.

“Just yer wand left — oh yeah, an’ I still haven’t got
yeh a birthday present.”

Harry felt himself go red.

“You don’t have to — ”

“I know I don’t have to. Tell yeh what, I’ll get yer
animal. Not a toad, toads went outta fashion years
ago, yeh’d be laughed at — an’ I don’ like cats, they
make me sneeze. I’ll get yer an owl. All the kids want
owls, they’re dead useful, carry yer mail an’
everythin’.”

Twenty minutes later, they left Eeylops Owl
Emporium, which had been dark and full of rustling
and flickering, jewel-bright eyes. Harry now carried a
large cage that held a beautiful snowy owl, fast asleep
with her head under her wing. He couldn’t stop
stammering his thanks, sounding just like Professor
Quirrell.

“Don’ mention it,” said Hagrid gruffly. “Don’ expect
you’ve had a lotta presents from them Dursleys. Just
Ollivanders left now — only place fer wands,
Ollivanders, and yeh gotta have the best wand.”

A magic wand . . . this was what Harry had been really
looking forward to.

The last shop was narrow and shabby. Peeling gold
letters over the door read Ollivanders: Makers of Fine
Wands since 382b. c. A single wand lay on a faded
purple cushion in the dusty window.



Page | 91 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




A tinkling bell rang somewhere in the depths of the
shop as they stepped inside. It was a tiny place,
empty except for a single, spindly chair that Hagrid
sat on to wait. Harry felt strangely as though he had
entered a very strict library; he swallowed a lot of new
questions that had just occurred to him and looked
instead at the thousands of narrow boxes piled neatly
right up to the ceiling. For some reason, the back of
his neck prickled. The very dust and silence in here
seemed to tingle with some secret magic.

“Good afternoon,” said a soft voice. Harry jumped.
Hagrid must have jumped, too, because there was a
loud crunching noise and he got quickly off the
spindly chair.

An old man was standing before them, his wide, pale
eyes shining like moons through the gloom of the
shop.

“Hello,” said Harry awkwardly.

“Ah yes,” said the man. “Yes, yes. I thought I’d be
seeing you soon. Harry Potter.” It wasn’t a question.
“You have your mother’s eyes. It seems only yesterday
she was in here herself, buying her first wand. Ten
and a quarter inches long, swishy, made of willow.
Nice wand for charm work.”

Mr. Ollivander moved closer to Harry. Harry wished
he would blink. Those silvery eyes were a bit creepy.

“Your father, on the other hand, favored a mahogany
wand. Eleven inches. Pliable. A little more power and
excellent for transfiguration. Well, I say your father
favored it — it’s really the wand that chooses the
wizard, of course.”



Page | 92 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




Mr. Ollivander had come so close that he and Harry
were almost nose to nose. Harry could see himself
reflected in those misty eyes.

“And that’s where ...”

Mr. Ollivander touched the lightning scar on Harry’s
forehead with a long, white finger.

“I’m sorry to say I sold the wand that did it,” he said
softly. “Thirteen-and-a-half inches. Yew. Powerful
wand, very powerful, and in the wrong hands ... well,
if I’d known what that wand was going out into the
world to do. ...”

He shook his head and then, to Harry’s relief, spotted
Hagrid.

“Rubeus! Rubeus Hagrid! How nice to see you again.

... Oak, sixteen inches, rather bendy, wasn’t it?”

“It was, sir, yes,” said Hagrid.

“Good wand, that one. But I suppose they snapped it
in half when you got expelled?” said Mr. Ollivander,
suddenly stern.

“Er — yes, they did, yes,” said Hagrid, shuffling his
feet. “I’ve still got the pieces, though,” he added
brightly.

“But you don’t use them?” said Mr. Ollivander
sharply.

“Oh, no, sir,” said Hagrid quickly. Harry noticed he
gripped his pink umbrella very tightly as he spoke.

“Hmmm,” said Mr. Ollivander, giving Hagrid a
piercing look. “Well, now — Mr. Potter. Let me see.”

Page | 93 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




He pulled a long tape measure with silver markings
out of his pocket. “Which is your wand arm?”

“Er — well, I’m right-handed,” said Harry.

“Hold out your arm. That’s it.” He measured Harry
from shoulder to finger, then wrist to elbow, shoulder
to floor, knee to armpit and round his head. As he
measured, he said, “Every Ollivander wand has a core
of a powerful magical substance, Mr. Potter. We use
unicorn hairs, phoenix tail feathers, and the
heartstrings of dragons. No two Ollivander wands are
the same, just as no two unicorns, dragons, or
phoenixes are quite the same. And of course, you will
never get such good results with another wizard’s
wand.”

Harry suddenly realized that the tape measure, which
was measuring between his nostrils, was doing this
on its own. Mr. Ollivander was flitting around the
shelves, taking down boxes.

“That will do,” he said, and the tape measure
crumpled into a heap on the floor. “Right then, Mr.
Potter. Try this one. Beech-wood and dragon
heartstring. Nine inches. Nice and flexible. Just take
it and give it a wave.”

Harry took the wand and (feeling foolish) waved it
around a bit, but Mr. Ollivander snatched it out of his
hand almost at once.

“Maple and phoenix feather. Seven inches. Quite
whippy. Try — ”

Harry tried — but he had hardly raised the wand
when it, too, was snatched back by Mr. Ollivander.



Page | 94 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“No, no — here, ebony and unicorn hair, eight and a
half inches, springy. Go on, go on, try it out.”

Harry tried. And tried. He had no idea what Mr.
Ollivander was waiting for. The pile of tried wands
was mounting higher and higher on the spindly chair,
but the more wands Mr. Ollivander pulled from the
shelves, the happier he seemed to become.

“Tricky customer, eh? Not to worry, well find the
perfect match here somewhere — I wonder, now —
yes, why not — unusual combination — holly and
phoenix feather, eleven inches, nice and supple.”

Harry took the wand. He felt a sudden warmth in his
fingers. He raised the wand above his head, brought it
swishing down through the dusty air and a stream of
red and gold sparks shot from the end like a firework,
throwing dancing spots of light on to the walls. Hagrid
whooped and clapped and Mr. Ollivander cried, “Oh,
bravo! Yes, indeed, oh, very good. Well, well, well ...
how curious ... how very curious ...”

He put Harry’s wand back into its box and wrapped it
in brown paper, still muttering, “Curious . . . curious



“Sorry,” said Harry, “but what’s curious?”

Mr. Ollivander fixed Harry with his pale stare.

“I remember every wand I’ve ever sold, Mr. Potter.
Every single wand. It so happens that the phoenix
whose tail feather is in your wand, gave another
feather — just one other. It is very curious indeed
that you should be destined for this wand when its
brother — why, its brother gave you that scar.”



Harry swallowed.

Page | 95 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Yes, thirteen-and-a-half inches. Yew. Curious indeed
how these things happen. The wand chooses the
wizard, remember. ... I think we must expect great
things from you, Mr. Potter. ... After all, He-Who-
Must-Not-Be-Named did great things — terrible, yes,
but great.”

Harry shivered. He wasn’t sure he liked Mr.

Ollivander too much. He paid seven gold Galleons for
his wand, and Mr. Ollivander bowed them from his
shop.

The late afternoon sun hung low in the sky as Harry
and Hagrid made their way back down Diagon Alley,
back through the wall, back through the Leaky
Cauldron, now empty. Harry didn’t speak at all as
they walked down the road; he didn’t even notice how
much people were gawking at them on the
Underground, laden as they were with all their funny-
shaped packages, with the snowy owl asleep in its
cage on Harry’s lap. Up another escalator, out into
Paddington station; Harry only realized where they
were when Hagrid tapped him on the shoulder.

“Got time fer a bite to eat before yer train leaves,” he
said.

He bought Harry a hamburger and they sat down on
plastic seats to eat them. Harry kept looking around.
Everything looked so strange, somehow.

“You all right, Harry? Yer very quiet,” said Hagrid.

Harry wasn’t sure he could explain. He’d just had the
best birthday of his life — and yet — he chewed his
hamburger, trying to find the words.

“Everyone thinks I’m special,” he said at last. “All
those people in the Leaky Cauldron, Professor

Page | 96 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




Quirrell, Mr. Ollivander ... but I don’t know anything
about magic at all. How can they expect great things?
I’m famous and I can’t even remember what I’m
famous for. I don’t know what happened when Vol-,
sorry — I mean, the night my parents died.”

Hagrid leaned across the table. Behind the wild beard
and eyebrows he wore a very kind smile.

“Don’ you worry, Harry. You’ll learn fast enough.
Everyone starts at the beginning at Hogwarts, you’ll
be just fine. Just be yerself. I know it’s hard. Yeh’ve
been singled out, an’ that’s always hard. But yeh’ll
have a great time at Hogwarts — I did — still do,
’smatter of fact.”

Hagrid helped Harry on to the train that would take
him back to the Dursleys, then handed him an
envelope.

“Yer ticket fer Hogwarts,” he said. “First o’ September
— King’s Cross — it’s all on yer ticket. Any problems
with the Dursleys, send me a letter with yer owl, she’ll
know where to find me. ... See yeh soon, Harry.”

The train pulled out of the station. Harry wanted to
watch Hagrid until he was out of sight; he rose in his
seat and pressed his nose against the window, but he
blinked and Hagrid had gone.



Page | 97 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling







THE JOURNEY FROM PLATFORM
NINE AND THREE-QUARTERS

Harry’s last month with the Dursleys wasn’t fun.
True, Dudley was now so scared of Harry he wouldn’t
stay in the same room, while Aunt Petunia and Uncle
Vernon didn’t shut Harry in his cupboard, force him
to do anything, or shout at him — in fact, they didn’t
speak to him at all. Half terrified, half furious, they
acted as though any chair with Harry in it were
empty. Although this was an improvement in many
ways, it did become a bit depressing after a while.

Harry kept to his room, with his new owl for
company. He had decided to call her Hedwig, a name
he had found in A History of Magic. His school books
were very interesting. He lay on his bed reading late
into the night, Hedwig swooping in and out of the
open window as she pleased. It was lucky that Aunt
Petunia didn’t come in to vacuum anymore, because
Hedwig kept bringing back dead mice. Every night
before he went to sleep, Harry ticked off another day



Page | 98 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling



on the piece of paper he had pinned to the wall,
counting down to September the first.

On the last day of August he thought he’d better
speak to his aunt and uncle about getting to King’s
Cross station the next day, so he went down to the
living room where they were watching a quiz show on
television. He cleared his throat to let them know he
was there, and Dudley screamed and ran from the
room.

“Er — Uncle Vernon?”

Uncle Vernon grunted to show he was listening.

“Er — I need to be at King’s Cross tomorrow to — to
go to Hogwarts.”

Uncle Vernon grunted again.

“Would it be all right if you gave me a lift?”

Grunt. Harry supposed that meant yes.

“Thank you.”

He was about to go back upstairs when Uncle Vernon
actually spoke.

“Funny way to get to a wizards’ school, the train.
Magic carpets all got punctures, have they?”

Harry didn’t say anything.

“Where is this school, anyway?”

“I don’t know,” said Harry, realizing this for the first
time. He pulled the ticket Hagrid had given him out of
his pocket.

Page | 99 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“I just take the train from platform nine and three-
quarters at eleven o’clock,” he read.

His aunt and uncle stared.

“Platform what?”

“Nine and three-quarters.”

“Don’t talk rubbish,” said Uncle Vernon. “There is no
platform nine and three-quarters.”

“It’s on my ticket.”

“Barking,” said Uncle Vernon, “howling mad, the lot of
them. You 11 see. You just wait. All right, we’ll take
you to King’s Cross. We’re going up to London
tomorrow anyway, or I wouldn’t bother.”

“Why are you going to London?” Harry asked, trying
to keep things friendly.

“Taking Dudley to the hospital,” growled Uncle
Vernon. “Got to have that ruddy tail removed before
he goes to Smeltings.”

Harry woke at five o’clock the next morning and was
too excited and nervous to go back to sleep. He got up
and pulled on his jeans because he didn’t want to
walk into the station in his wizard’s robes — he’d
change on the train. He checked his Hogwarts list yet
again to make sure he had everything he needed, saw
that Hedwig was shut safely in her cage, and then
paced the room, waiting for the Dursleys to get up.
Two hours later, Harry’s huge, heavy trunk had been
loaded into the Dursleys’ car, Aunt Petunia had
talked Dudley into sitting next to Harry, and they had
set off.



Page | 100 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




They reached King’s Cross at half past ten. Uncle
Vernon dumped Harry’s trunk onto a cart and
wheeled it into the station for him. Harry thought this
was strangely kind until Uncle Vernon stopped dead,
facing the platforms with a nasty grin on his face.

“Well, there you are, boy. Platform nine — platform
ten. Your platform should be somewhere in the
middle, but they don’t seem to have built it yet, do
they?”

He was quite right, of course. There was a big plastic
number nine over one platform and a big plastic
number ten over the one next to it, and in the middle,
nothing at all.

“Have a good term,” said Uncle Vernon with an even
nastier smile. He left without another word. Harry
turned and saw the Dursleys drive away. All three of
them were laughing. Harry’s mouth went rather dry.
What on earth was he going to do? He was starting to
attract a lot of funny looks, because of Hedwig. He’d
have to ask someone.

He stopped a passing guard, but didn’t dare mention
platform nine and three-quarters. The guard had
never heard of Hogwarts and when Harry couldn’t
even tell him what part of the country it was in, he
started to get annoyed, as though Harry was being
stupid on purpose. Getting desperate, Harry asked for
the train that left at eleven o’clock, but the guard said
there wasn’t one. In the end the guard strode away,
muttering about time wasters. Harry was now trying
hard not to panic. According to the large clock over
the arrivals board, he had ten minutes left to get on
the train to Hogwarts and he had no idea how to do it;
he was stranded in the middle of a station with a
trunk he could hardly lift, a pocket full of wizard
money, and a large owl.

Page | 101 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




Hagrid must have forgotten to tell him something you
had to do, like tapping the third brick on the left to
get into Diagon Alley. He wondered if he should get
out his wand and start tapping the ticket inspector’s
stand between platforms nine and ten.

At that moment a group of people passed just behind
him and he caught a few words of what they were
saying.

“ — packed with Muggles, of course — ”

Harry swung round. The speaker was a plump
woman who was talking to four boys, all with flaming
red hair. Each of them was pushing a trunk like
Harry’s in front of him — and they had an owl.

Heart hammering, Harry pushed his cart after them.
They stopped and so did he, just near enough to hear
what they were saying.

“Now, what’s the platform number?” said the boys’
mother.

“Nine and three-quarters!” piped a small girl, also red-
headed, who was holding her hand, “Mom, can’t I go



“You’re not old enough, Ginny, now be quiet. All right,
Percy, you go first.”

What looked like the oldest boy marched toward
platforms nine and ten. Harry watched, careful not to
blink in case he missed it — but just as the boy
reached the dividing barrier between the two
platforms, a large crowd of tourists came swarming in
front of him and by the time the last backpack had
cleared away, the boy had vanished.



Page | 102 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Fred, you next,” the plump woman said.



“I’m not Fred, I’m George,” said the boy. “Honestly,
woman, you call yourself our mother? Can’t you tell
I’m George?”

“Sorry, George, dear.”

“Only joking, I am Fred,” said the boy, and off he
went. His twin called after him to hurry up, and he
must have done so, because a second later, he had
gone — but how had he done it?

Now the third brother was walking briskly toward the
barrier — he was almost there — and then, quite
suddenly, he wasn’t anywhere.

There was nothing else for it.

“Excuse me,” Harry said to the plump woman.

“Hello, dear,” she said. “First time at Hogwarts? Ron’s
new, too.”

She pointed at the last and youngest of her sons. He
was tall, thin, and gangling, with freckles, big hands
and feet, and a long nose.

“Yes,” said Harry. “The thing is — the thing is, I don’t
know how to — ”

“How to get onto the platform?” she said kindly, and
Harry nodded.

“Not to worry,” she said. “All you have to do is walk
straight at the barrier between platforms nine and
ten. Don’t stop and don’t be scared you’ll crash into
it, that’s very important. Best do it at a bit of a run if
you’re nervous. Go on, go now before Ron.”

Page | 103 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Er — okay,” said Harry.

He pushed his trolley around and stared at the
barrier. It looked very solid.

He started to walk toward it. People jostled him on
their way to platforms nine and ten. Harry walked
more quickly. He was going to smash right into that
barrier and then he’d be in trouble — leaning forward
on his cart, he broke into a heavy run — the barrier
was coming nearer and nearer — he wouldn’t be able
to stop — the cart was out of control — he was a foot
away — he closed his eyes ready for the crash —

It didn’t come ... he kept on running ... he opened his
eyes.

A scarlet steam engine was waiting next to a platform
packed with people. A sign overhead said Hogwarts
Express, eleven o’clock. Harry looked behind him and
saw a wrought-iron archway where the barrier had
been, with the words Platform Nine and Three-
Quarters on it. He had done it.

Smoke from the engine drifted over the heads of the
chattering crowd, while cats of every color wound
here and there between their legs. Owls hooted to one
another in a disgruntled sort of way over the babble
and the scraping of heavy trunks.

The first few carriages were already packed with
students, some hanging out of the window to talk to
their families, some fighting over seats. Harry pushed
his cart off down the platform in search of an empty
seat. He passed a round-faced boy who was saying,
“Gran, I’ve lost my toad again.”

“Oh, Neville,” he heard the old woman sigh.



Page | 104 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




A boy with dreadlocks was surrounded by a small
crowd.



“Give us a look, Lee, go on.”

The boy lifted the lid of a box in his arms, and the
people around him shrieked and yelled as something
inside poked out a long, hairy leg.

Harry pressed on through the crowd until he found
an empty compartment near the end of the train. He
put Hedwig inside first and then started to shove and
heave his trunk toward the train door. He tried to lift
it up the steps but could hardly raise one end and
twice he dropped it painfully on his foot.

“Want a hand?” It was one of the red-haired twins
he’d followed through the barrier.

“Yes, please,” Harry panted.

“Oy, Fred! C’mere and help!”

With the twins’ help, Harry’s trunk was at last tucked
away in a corner of the compartment.

“Thanks,” said Harry, pushing his sweaty hair out of
his eyes.

“What’s that?” said one of the twins suddenly,
pointing at Harry’s lightning scar.

“Blimey,” said the other twin. “Are you — ?”

“He is,” said the first twin. “Aren’t you?” he added to
Harry.

“What?” said Harry.

Page | 105 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“ Harry Potter,” chorused the twins.

“Oh, him,” said Harry. “I mean, yes, I am.”

The two boys gawked at him, and Harry felt himself
turning red. Then, to his relief, a voice came floating
in through the train’s open door.

“Fred? George? Are you there?”

“Coming, Mom.”

With a last look at Harry, the twins hopped off the
train.

Harry sat down next to the window where, half
hidden, he could watch the red-haired family on the
platform and hear what they were saying. Their
mother had just taken out her handkerchief.

“Ron, you’ve got something on your nose.”

The youngest boy tried to jerk out of the way, but she
grabbed him and began rubbing the end of his nose.

“Mom — geroff.” He wriggled free.

“Aaah, has ickle Ronnie got somefink on his nosie?”
said one of the twins.

“Shut up,” said Ron.

“Where’s Percy?” said their mother.

“He’s coming now.”

The oldest boy came striding into sight. He had
already changed into his billowing black Hogwarts



Page | 106 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




robes, and Harry noticed a shiny red and gold badge
on his chest with the letter P on it.

“Can’t stay long, Mother,” he said. “I’m up front, the
prefects have got two compartments to themselves — ”

“Oh, are you a prefect, Percy?” said one of the twins,
with an air of great surprise. “You should have said
something, we had no idea.”

“Hang on, I think I remember him saying something
about it,” said the other twin. “Once — ”

“Or twice — ”

“A minute — ”

“All summer — ”

“Oh, shut up,” said Percy the Prefect.

“How come Percy gets new robes, anyway?” said one
of the twins.

“Because he’s a prefect,” said their mother fondly. “All
right, dear, well, have a good term — send me an owl
when you get there.”

She kissed Percy on the cheek and he left. Then she
turned to the twins.

“Now, you two — this year, you behave yourselves. If I
get one more owl telling me you’ve — you’ve blown up
a toilet or — ”

“Blown up a toilet? We’ve never blown up a toilet.”
“Great idea though, thanks, Mom.”



Page | 107 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“It’s not funny. And look after Ron.”

“Don’t worry, ickle Ronniekins is safe with us.”

“Shut up,” said Ron again. He was almost as tall as
the twins already and his nose was still pink where
his mother had rubbed it.

“Hey, Mom, guess what? Guess who we just met on
the train?”

Harry leaned back quickly so they couldn’t see him
looking.

“You know that black-haired boy who was near us in
the station? Know who he is?”

“Who?”

“ Harry Potted”

Harry heard the little girl’s voice.

“Oh, Mom, can I go on the train and see him, Mom,
oh please. ...”

“You’ve already seen him, Ginny, and the poor boy
isn’t something you goggle at in a zoo. Is he really,
Fred? How do you know?”

“Asked him. Saw his scar. It’s really there — like
lightning.”

“Poor dear — no wonder he was alone, I wondered. He
was ever so polite when he asked how to get onto the
platform.”

“Never mind that, do you think he remembers what
You-Know-Who looks like?”

Page | 108 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




Their mother suddenly became very stern.



“I forbid you to ask him, Fred. No, don’t you dare. As
though he needs reminding of that on his first day at
school.”

“All right, keep your hair on.”

A whistle sounded.

“Hurry up!” their mother said, and the three boys
clambered onto the train. They leaned out of the
window for her to kiss them good-bye, and their
younger sister began to cry.

“Don’t, Ginny, we’ll send you loads of owls.”

“Well send you a Hogwarts toilet seat.”

“ Georg e\”

“Only joking, Mom.”

The train began to move. Harry saw the boys’ mother
waving and their sister, half laughing, half crying,
running to keep up with the train until it gathered too
much speed, then she fell back and waved.

Harry watched the girl and her mother disappear as
the train rounded the corner. Houses flashed past the
window. Harry felt a great leap of excitement. He
didn’t know what he was going to — but it had to be
better than what he was leaving behind.

The door of the compartment slid open and the
youngest redheaded boy came in.

“Anyone sitting there?” he asked, pointing at the seat
opposite Harry. “Everywhere else is full.”

Page | 109 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




Harry shook his head and the boy sat down. He
glanced at Harry and then looked quickly out of the
window, pretending he hadn’t looked. Harry saw he
still had a black mark on his nose.

“Hey, Ron.”

The twins were back.

“Listen, we’re going down the middle of the train —

Lee Jordan’s got a giant tarantula down there.”

“Right,” mumbled Ron.

“Harry,” said the other twin, “did we introduce
ourselves? Fred and George Weasley. And this is Ron,
our brother. See you later, then.”

“Bye,” said Harry and Ron. The twins slid the
compartment door shut behind them.

“Are you really Harry Potter?” Ron blurted out.

Harry nodded.

“Oh — well, I thought it might be one of Fred and
George’s jokes,” said Ron. “And have you really got —
you know ...”

He pointed at Harry’s forehead.

Harry pulled back his bangs to show the lightning
scar. Ron stared.

“So that’s where You-Know-Who — ?”

“Yes,” said Harry, “but I can’t remember it.”

“Nothing?” said Ron eagerly.

Page | 110 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Well — I remember a lot of green light, but nothing
else.”



“Wow,” said Ron. He sat and stared at Harry for a few
moments, then, as though he had suddenly realized
what he was doing, he looked quickly out of the
window again.

“Are all your family wizards?” asked Harry, who found
Ron just as interesting as Ron found him.

“Er — yes, I think so,” said Ron. “I think Mom’s got a
second cousin who’s an accountant, but we never talk
about him.”

“So you must know loads of magic already.”

The Weasleys were clearly one of those old wizarding
families the pale boy in Diagon Alley had talked
about.

“I heard you went to live with Muggles,” said Ron.
“What are they like?”

“Horrible — well, not all of them. My aunt and uncle
and cousin are, though. Wish I’d had three wizard
brothers.”

“Five,” said Ron. For some reason, he was looking
gloomy. “I’m the sixth in our family to go to Hogwarts.
You could say I’ve got a lot to live up to. Bill and
Charlie have already left — Bill was head boy and
Charlie was captain of Quidditch. Now Percy’s a
prefect. Fred and George mess around a lot, but they
still get really good marks and everyone thinks they’re
really funny. Everyone expects me to do as well as the
others, but if I do, it’s no big deal, because they did it
first. You never get anything new, either, with five

Page | 111 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




brothers. I’ve got Bill’s old robes, Charlie’s old wand,
and Percy’s old rat.”

Ron reached inside his jacket and pulled out a fat
gray rat, which was asleep.

“His name’s Scabbers and he’s useless, he hardly ever
wakes up. Percy got an owl from my dad for being
made a prefect, but they couldn’t aff — I mean, I got
Scabbers instead.”

Ron’s ears went pink. He seemed to think he’d said
too much, because he went back to staring out of the
window.

Harry didn’t think there was anything wrong with not
being able to afford an owl. After all, he’d never had
any money in his life until a month ago, and he told
Ron so, all about having to wear Dudley’s old clothes
and never getting proper birthday presents. This
seemed to cheer Ron up.

"... and until Hagrid told me, I didn’t know anything
about being a wizard or about my parents or
Voldemort — ”

Ron gasped.

“What?” said Harry.

“ You said You-Know-Who’s name\” said Ron, sounding
both shocked and impressed. “I’d have thought you,
of all people — ”

“I’m not trying to be brave or anything, saying the
name,” said Harry, “I just never knew you shouldn’t.
See what I mean? I’ve got loads to learn. ... I bet,” he
added, voicing for the first time something that had



Page | 112 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




been worrying him a lot lately, “I bet I’m the worst in
the class.”

“You won’t be. There’s loads of people who come from
Muggle families and they learn quick enough.”

While they had been talking, the train had carried
them out of London. Now they were speeding past
fields full of cows and sheep. They were quiet for a
time, watching the fields and lanes flick past.

Around half past twelve there was a great clattering
outside in the corridor and a smiling, dimpled woman
slid back their door and said, “Anything off the cart,
dears?”

Harry, who hadn’t had any breakfast, leapt to his feet,
but Ron’s ears went pink again and he muttered that
he’d brought sandwiches. Harry went out into the
corridor.

He had never had any money for candy with the
Dursleys, and now that he had pockets rattling with
gold and silver he was ready to buy as many Mars
Bars as he could carry — but the woman didn’t have
Mars Bars. What she did have were Bertie Bott’s
Every Flavor Beans, Drooble’s Best Blowing Gum,
Chocolate Frogs, Pumpkin Pasties, Cauldron Cakes,
Licorice Wands, and a number of other strange things
Harry had never seen in his life. Not wanting to miss
anything, he got some of everything and paid the
woman eleven silver Sickles and seven bronze Knuts.

Ron stared as Harry brought it all back in to the
compartment and tipped it onto an empty seat.

“Hungry, are you?”



Page | 113 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Starving,” said Harry, taking a large bite out of a
pumpkin pasty.

Ron had taken out a lumpy package and unwrapped
it. There were four sandwiches inside. He pulled one
of them apart and said, “She always forgets I don’t
like corned beef.”

“Swap you for one of these,” said Harry, holding up a
pasty. “Go on — ”

“You don’t want this, it’s all dry,” said Ron. “She
hasn’t got much time,” he added quickly, “you know,
with five of us.”

“Go on, have a pasty,” said Harry, who had never had
anything to share before or, indeed, anyone to share
it with. It was a nice feeling, sitting there with Ron,
eating their way through all Harry’s pasties, cakes,
and candies (the sandwiches lay forgotten).

“What are these?” Harry asked Ron, holding up a
pack of Chocolate Frogs. “They’re not really frogs, are
they?” He was starting to feel that nothing would
surprise him.

“No,” said Ron. “But see what the card is. I’m missing
Agrippa.”

“What?”

“Oh, of course, you wouldn’t know — Chocolate Frogs
have cards inside them, you know, to collect —
famous witches and wizards. I’ve got about five
hundred, but I haven’t got Agrippa or Ptolemy.”

Harry unwrapped his Chocolate Frog and picked up
the card. It showed a man’s face. He wore half-moon
glasses, had a long, crooked nose, and flowing silver

Page | 114 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




hair, beard, and mustache. Underneath the picture
was the name Albus Dumbledore.



“So this is Dumbledore!” said Harry.

“Don’t tell me you’d never heard of Dumbledore!” said
Ron. “Can I have a frog? I might get Agrippa — thanks



Harry turned over his card and read:

ALBUS DUMBLEDORE

CURRENTLY HEADMASTER OF HOGWARTS

Considered by many the greatest wizard of modern
times, Dumbledore is particularly famous for his
defeat of the Dark wizard Grindelwald in 1945, for the
discovery of the twelve uses of dragon’s blood, and his
work on alchemy with his partner, Nicolas Flamel.
Professor Dumbledore enjoys chamber music and ten
pin bowling.

Harry turned the card back over and saw, to his
astonishment, that Dumbledore ’s face had
disappeared.

“He’s gone!”

“Well, you can’t expect him to hang around all day,”
said Ron. “He’ll be back. No, I’ve got Morgana again
and I’ve got about six of her ... do you want it? You
can start collecting.”

Ron’s eyes strayed to the pile of Chocolate Frogs
waiting to be unwrapped.

“Help yourself,” said Harry. “But in, you know, the
Muggle world, people just stay put in photos.”

Page | 115 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Do they? What, they don’t move at all?” Ron sounded
amazed. “Weird).”



Harry stared as Dumbledore sidled back into the
picture on his card and gave him a small smile. Ron
was more interested in eating the frogs than looking
at the Famous Witches and Wizards cards, but Harry
couldn’t keep his eyes off them. Soon he had not only
Dumbledore and Morgana, but Hengist of Woodcraft,
Alberic Grunnion, Circe, Paracelsus, and Merlin. He
finally tore his eyes away from the druidess Cliodna,
who was scratching her nose, to open a bag of Bertie
Bott’s Every Flavor Beans.

“You want to be careful with those,” Ron warned
Harry. “When they say every flavor, they mean every
flavor — you know, you get all the ordinary ones like
chocolate and peppermint and marmalade, but then
you can get spinach and liver and tripe. George
reckons he had a booger-flavored one once.”

Ron picked up a green bean, looked at it carefully,
and bit into a corner.

“Bleaaargh — see? Sprouts.”

They had a good time eating the Every Flavor Beans.
Harry got toast, coconut, baked bean, strawberry,
curry, grass, coffee, sardine, and was even brave
enough to nibble the end off a funny gray one Ron
wouldn’t touch, which turned out to be pepper.

The countryside now flying past the window was
becoming wilder. The neat fields had gone. Now there
were woods, twisting rivers, and dark green hills.

There was a knock on the door of their compartment
and the round-faced boy Harry had passed on

Page | 116 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




platform nine and three-quarters came in. He looked
tearful.



“Sorry,” he said, “but have you seen a toad at all?”

When they shook their heads, he wailed, “I’ve lost
him! He keeps getting away from me!”

“Hell turn up,” said Harry.

“Yes,” said the boy miserably. “Well, if you see him ...”
He left.

“Don’t know why he’s so bothered,” said Ron. “If I’d
brought a toad I’d lose it as quick as I could. Mind
you, I brought Scabbers, so I can’t talk.”

The rat was still snoozing on Ron’s lap.

“He might have died and you wouldn’t know the
difference,” said Ron in disgust. “I tried to turn him
yellow yesterday to make him more interesting, but
the spell didn’t work. I’ll show you, look ...”

He rummaged around in his trunk and pulled out a
very battered-looking wand. It was chipped in places
and something white was glinting at the end.

“Unicorn hair’s nearly poking out. Anyway — ”

He had just raised his wand when the compartment
door slid open again. The toadless boy was back, but
this time he had a girl with him. She was already
wearing her new Hogwarts robes.

“Has anyone seen a toad? Neville’s lost one,” she said.
She had a bossy sort of voice, lots of bushy brown
hair, and rather large front teeth.

Page | 117 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“We’ve already told him we haven’t seen it,” said Ron,
but the girl wasn’t listening, she was looking at the
wand in his hand.

“Oh, are you doing magic? Let’s see it, then.”

She sat down. Ron looked taken aback.

“Er — all right.”

He cleared his throat.

“ Sunshine , daisies, butter mellow,

Turn this stupid, fat rat yellow.”

He waved his wand, but nothing happened. Scabbers
stayed gray and fast asleep.

“Are you sure that’s a real spell?” said the girl. “Well,
it’s not very good, is it? I’ve tried a few simple spells
just for practice and it’s all worked for me. Nobody in
my family’s magic at all, it was ever such a surprise
when I got my letter, but I was ever so pleased, of
course, I mean, it’s the very best school of witchcraft
there is, I’ve heard — I’ve learned all our course books
by heart, of course, I just hope it will be enough — I’m
Hermione Granger, by the way, who are you?”

She said all this very fast.

Harry looked at Ron, and was relieved to see by his
stunned face that he hadn’t learned all the course
books by heart either.

“I’m Ron Weasley,” Ron muttered.

“Harry Potter,” said Harry.



Page | 118 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Are you really?” said Hermione. “I know all about
you, of course — I got a few extra books for
background reading, and you’re in Modern Magical
History and The Rise and Fall of the Dark Arts and
Great Wizarding Events of the Twentieth Century.”

“Am I?” said Harry, feeling dazed.

“Goodness, didn’t you know, I’d have found out
everything I could if it was me,” said Hermione. “Do
either of you know what House you’ll be in? I’ve been
asking around, and I hope I’m in Gryffindor, it sounds
by far the best; I hear Dumbledore himself was in it,
but I suppose Ravenclaw wouldn’t be too bad. ...
Anyway, we’d better go and look for Neville’s toad.

You two had better change, you know, I expect we’ll
be there soon.”

And she left, taking the toadless boy with her.

“Whatever House I’m in, I hope she’s not in it,” said
Ron. He threw his wand back into his trunk. “Stupid
spell — George gave it to me, bet he knew it was a
dud.”

“What House are your brothers in?” asked Harry.

“Gryffindor,” said Ron. Gloom seemed to be settling
on him again. “Mom and Dad were in it, too. I don’t
know what they’ll say if I’m not. I don’t suppose
Ravenclaw would be too bad, but imagine if they put
me in Slytherin.”

“That’s the House Vol-, I mean, You-Know-Who was
in?”



“Yeah,” said Ron. He flopped back into his seat,
looking depressed.



Page | 119 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“You know, I think the ends of Scabbers’ whiskers are
a bit lighter,” said Harry, trying to take Ron’s mind off
Houses. “So what do your oldest brothers do now that
they’ve left, anyway?”

Harry was wondering what a wizard did once he’d
finished school.

“Charlie’s in Romania studying dragons, and Bill’s in
Africa doing something for Gringotts,” said Ron. “Did
you hear about Gringotts? It’s been all over the Daily
Prophet, but I don’t suppose you get that with the
Muggles — someone tried to rob a high security
vault.”

Harry stared.

“Really? What happened to them?”

“Nothing, that’s why it’s such big news. They haven’t
been caught. My dad says it must’ve been a powerful
Dark wizard to get round Gringotts, but they don’t
think they took anything, that’s what’s odd. ’Course,
everyone gets scared when something like this
happens in case You-Know-Who’s behind it.”

Harry turned this news over in his mind. He was
starting to get a prickle of fear every time You-Know-
Who was mentioned. He supposed this was all part of
entering the magical world, but it had been a lot more
comfortable saying “Voldemort” without worrying.

“What’s your Quidditch team?” Ron asked.

“Er — I don’t know any,” Harry confessed.

“What!” Ron looked dumbfounded. “Oh, you wait, it’s
the best game in the world — ” And he was off,
explaining all about the four balls and the positions of

Page | 120 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




the seven players, describing famous games he’d been
to with his brothers and the broomstick he’d like to
get if he had the money. He was just taking Harry
through the finer points of the game when the
compartment door slid open yet again, but it wasn’t
Neville the toadless boy, or Hermione Granger this
time.

Three boys entered, and Harry recognized the middle
one at once: It was the pale boy from Madam Malkin’s
robe shop. He was looking at Harry with a lot more
interest than he’d shown back in Diagon Alley.

“Is it true?” he said. “They’re saying all down the train
that Harry Potter’s in this compartment. So it’s you, is
it?”



“Yes,” said Harry. He was looking at the other boys.
Both of them were thickset and looked extremely
mean. Standing on either side of the pale boy, they
looked like bodyguards.

“Oh, this is Crabbe and this is Goyle,” said the pale
boy carelessly, noticing where Harry was looking.

“And my names Malfoy, Draco Malfoy.”

Ron gave a slight cough, which might have been
hiding a snigger. Draco Malfoy looked at him.

“Think my name’s funny, do you? No need to ask who
you are. My father told me all the Weasleys have red
hair, freckles, and more children than they can
afford.”

He turned back to Harry. “You’ll soon find out some
wizarding families are much better than others,

Potter. You don’t want to go making friends with the
wrong sort. I can help you there.”



Page | 121 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




He held out his hand to shake Harry’s, but Harry
didn’t take it.

“I think I can tell who the wrong sort are for myself,
thanks,” he said coolly.

Draco Malfoy didn’t go red, but a pink tinge appeared
in his pale cheeks.

“I’d be careful if I were you, Potter,” he said slowly.
“Unless you’re a bit politer you’ll go the same way as
your parents. They didn’t know what was good for
them, either. You hang around with riffraff like the
Weasleys and that Hagrid, and it’ll rub off on you.”

Both Harry and Ron stood up.

“Say that again,” Ron said, his face as red as his hair.

“Oh, you’re going to fight us, are you?” Malfoy
sneered.

“Unless you get out now,” said Harry, more bravely
than he felt, because Crabbe and Goyle were a lot
bigger than him or Ron.

“But we don’t feel like leaving, do we, boys? We’ve
eaten all our food and you still seem to have some.”

Goyle reached toward the Chocolate Frogs next to
Ron — Ron leapt forward, but before he’d so much as
touched Goyle, Goyle let out a horrible yell.

Scabbers the rat was hanging off his finger, sharp
little teeth sunk deep into Goyle ’s knuckle — Crabbe
and Malfoy backed away as Goyle swung Scabbers
round and round, howling, and when Scabbers finally
flew off and hit the window, all three of them
disappeared at once. Perhaps they thought there were
Page | 122 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




more rats lurking among the sweets, or perhaps
they’d heard footsteps, because a second later,
Hermione Granger had come in.

“What has been going on?” she said, looking at the
sweets all over the floor and Ron picking up Scabbers
by his tail.

“I think he’s been knocked out,” Ron said to Harry.

He looked closer at Scabbers. “No — I don’t believe it
— he’s gone back to sleep.”

And so he had.

“You’ve met Malfoy before?”

Harry explained about their meeting in Diagon Alley.

“I’ve heard of his family,” said Ron darkly. “They were
some of the first to come back to our side after You-
Know-Who disappeared. Said they’d been bewitched.
My dad doesn’t believe it. He says Malfoy’s father
didn’t need an excuse to go over to the Dark Side.” He
turned to Hermione. “Can we help you with
something?”

“You’d better hurry up and put your robes on, I’ve
just been up to the front to ask the conductor, and he
says we’re nearly there. You haven’t been fighting,
have you? You’ll be in trouble before we even get
there!”

“Scabbers has been fighting, not us,” said Ron,
scowling at her. “Would you mind leaving while we
change?”

“All right — I only came in here because people
outside are behaving very childishly, racing up and
down the corridors,” said Hermione in a sniffy voice.

Page | 123 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“And you’ve got dirt on your nose, by the way, did you
know?”



Ron glared at her as she left. Harry peered out of the
window. It was getting dark. He could see mountains
and forests under a deep purple sky. The train did
seem to be slowing down.

He and Ron took off their jackets and pulled on their
long black robes. Ron’s were a bit short for him, you
could see his sneakers underneath them.

A voice echoed through the train: “We will be reaching
Hogwarts in five minutes’ time. Please leave your
luggage on the train, it will be taken to the school
separately.”

Harry’s stomach lurched with nerves and Ron, he
saw, looked pale under his freckles. They crammed
their pockets with the last of the sweets and joined
the crowd thronging the corridor.

The train slowed right down and finally stopped.
People pushed their way toward the door and out on
to a tiny, dark platform. Harry shivered in the cold
night air. Then a lamp came bobbing over the heads
of the students, and Harry heard a familiar voice:
“Firs’ years! Firs’ years over here! All right there,
Harry?”

Hagrid’s big hairy face beamed over the sea of heads.

“C’mon, follow me — any more firs’ years? Mind yer
step, now! Firs’ years follow me!”

Slipping and stumbling, they followed Hagrid down
what seemed to be a steep, narrow path. It was so
dark on either side of them that Harry thought there
must be thick trees there. Nobody spoke much.

Page | 124 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




Neville, the boy who kept losing his toad, sniffed once
or twice.



“Yeh’ll get yer firs’ sight o’ Hogwarts in a sec,” Hagrid
called over his shoulder, “jus’ round this bend here.”

There was a loud “Oooooh!”

The narrow path had opened suddenly onto the edge
of a great black lake. Perched atop a high mountain
on the other side, its windows sparkling in the starry
sky, was a vast castle with many turrets and towers.

“No more’n four to a boat!” Hagrid called, pointing to
a fleet of little boats sitting in the water by the shore.
Harry and Ron were followed into their boat by Neville
and Hermione.

“Everyone in?” shouted Hagrid, who had a boat to
himself. “Right then — FORWARD!”

And the fleet of little boats moved off all at once,
gliding across the lake, which was as smooth as
glass. Everyone was silent, staring up at the great
castle overhead. It towered over them as they sailed
nearer and nearer to the cliff on which it stood.

“Heads down!” yelled Hagrid as the first boats reached
the cliff; they all bent their heads and the little boats
carried them through a curtain of ivy that hid a wide
opening in the cliff face. They were carried along a
dark tunnel, which seemed to be taking them right
underneath the castle, until they reached a kind of
underground harbor, where they clambered out onto
rocks and pebbles.

“Oy, you there! Is this your toad?” said Hagrid, who
was checking the boats as people climbed out of
them.

Page | 125 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Trevor!” cried Neville blissfully, holding out his
hands. Then they clambered up a passageway in the
rock after Hagrid’s lamp, coming out at last onto
smooth, damp grass right in the shadow of the castle.

They walked up a flight of stone steps and crowded
around the huge, oak front door.

“Everyone here? You there, still got yer toad?”

Hagrid raised a gigantic fist and knocked three times
on the castle door.



Page | 126 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




7




THE SORTING HAT

The door swung open at once. A tall, black-haired
witch in emerald-green robes stood there. She had a
very stern face and Harry’s first thought was that this
was not someone to cross.

“The firs’ years, Professor McGonagall,” said Hagrid.

“Thank you, Hagrid. I will take them from here.”

She pulled the door wide. The entrance hall was so
big you could have fit the whole of the Dursleys’
house in it. The stone walls were lit with flaming
torches like the ones at Gringotts, the ceiling was too
high to make out, and a magnificent marble staircase
facing them led to the upper floors.

They followed Professor McGonagall across the
flagged stone floor. Harry could hear the drone of
hundreds of voices from a doorway to the right — the
rest of the school must already be here — but
Professor McGonagall showed the first years into a
small, empty chamber off the hall. They crowded in,
Page | 127 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone -J.K. Rowling



standing rather closer together than they would
usually have done, peering about nervously.

“Welcome to Hogwarts,” said Professor McGonagall.
“The start-of-term banquet will begin shortly, but
before you take your seats in the Great Hall, you will
be sorted into your Houses. The Sorting is a very
important ceremony because, while you are here,
your House will be something like your family within
Hogwarts. You will have classes with the rest of your
House, sleep in your House dormitory, and spend free
time in your House common room.

“The four Houses are called Gryffindor, Hufflepuff,
Ravenclaw, and Slytherin. Each House has its own
noble history and each has produced outstanding
witches and wizards. While you are at Hogwarts, your
triumphs will earn your House points, while any rule-
breaking will lose House points. At the end of the
year, the House with the most points is awarded the
House cup, a great honor. I hope each of you will be a
credit to whichever House becomes yours.

“The Sorting Ceremony will take place in a few
minutes in front of the rest of the school. I suggest
you all smarten yourselves up as much as you can
while you are waiting.”

Her eyes lingered for a moment on Neville’s cloak,
which was fastened under his left ear, and on Ron’s
smudged nose. Harry nervously tried to flatten his
hair.

“I shall return when we are ready for you,” said
Professor McGonagall. “Please wait quietly.”

She left the chamber. Harry swallowed.



Page | 128 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“How exactly do they sort us into Houses?” he asked
Ron.



“Some sort of test, I think. Fred said it hurts a lot, but
I think he was joking.”

Harry’s heart gave a horrible jolt. A test? In front of
the whole school? But he didn’t know any magic yet
— what on earth would he have to do? He hadn’t
expected something like this the moment they
arrived. He looked around anxiously and saw that
everyone else looked terrified, too. No one was talking
much except Hermione Granger, who was whispering
very fast about all the spells she’d learned and
wondering which one she’d need. Harry tried hard not
to listen to her. He’d never been more nervous, never,
not even when he’d had to take a school report home
to the Dursleys saying that he’d somehow turned his
teachers wig blue. He kept his eyes fixed on the door.
Any second now, Professor McGonagall would come
back and lead him to his doom.

Then something happened that made him jump about
a foot in the air — several people behind him
screamed.

“What the — ?”

He gasped. So did the people around him. About
twenty ghosts had just streamed through the back
wall. Pearly-white and slightly transparent, they
glided across the room talking to one another and
hardly glancing at the first years. They seemed to be
arguing. What looked like a fat little monk was
saying: “Forgive and forget, I say, we ought to give
him a second chance — ”

“My dear Friar, haven’t we given Peeves all the
chances he deserves? He gives us all a bad name and

Page | 129 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




you know, he’s not really even a ghost — I say, what
are you all doing here?”



A ghost wearing a ruff and tights had suddenly
noticed the first years.

Nobody answered.

“New students!” said the Fat Friar, smiling around at
them. “About to be Sorted, I suppose?”

A few people nodded mutely.

“Hope to see you in Hufflepuff!” said the Friar. “My old
House, you know.”

“Move along now,” said a sharp voice. “The Sorting
Ceremony’s about to start.”

Professor McGonagall had returned. One by one, the
ghosts floated away through the opposite wall.

“Now, form a line,” Professor McGonagall told the first
years, “and follow me.”

Feeling oddly as though his legs had turned to lead,
Harry got into line behind a boy with sandy hair, with
Ron behind him, and they walked out of the chamber,
back across the hall, and through a pair of double
doors into the Great Hall.

Harry had never even imagined such a strange and
splendid place. It was lit by thousands and thousands
of candles that were floating in midair over four long
tables, where the rest of the students were sitting.
These tables were laid with glittering golden plates
and goblets. At the top of the hall was another long
table where the teachers were sitting. Professor
McGonagall led the first years up here, so that they
Page | 130 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




came to a halt in a line facing the other students,
with the teachers behind them. The hundreds of faces
staring at them looked like pale lanterns in the
flickering candlelight. Dotted here and there among
the students, the ghosts shone misty silver. Mainly to
avoid all the staring eyes, Harry looked upward and
saw a velvety black ceiling dotted with stars. He heard
Hermione whisper, “It’s bewitched to look like the sky
outside. I read about it in Hogwarts, A History.”

It was hard to believe there was a ceiling there at all,
and that the Great Hall didn’t simply open on to the
heavens.

Harry quickly looked down again as Professor
McGonagall silently placed a four-legged stool in front
of the first years. On top of the stool she put a pointed
wizard’s hat. This hat was patched and frayed and
extremely dirty. Aunt Petunia wouldn’t have let it in
the house.

Maybe they had to try and get a rabbit out of it, Harry
thought wildly, that seemed the sort of thing —
noticing that everyone in the hall was now staring at
the hat, he stared at it, too. For a few seconds, there
was complete silence. Then the hat twitched. A rip
near the brim opened wide like a mouth — and the
hat began to sing:

“Oh, you may not think I’m pretty,

But don’t judge on what you see,

I’ll eat myself if you can find

A smarter hat than me.

You can keep your bowlers black,



Page | 131 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




Your top hats sleek and tall,

For I’m the Hogwarts Sorting Hat
And I can cap them all.

There’s nothing hidden in your head
The Sorting Hat can’t see,

So try me on and I will tell you
Where you ought to be.

You might belong in Gryffindor,

Where dwell the brave at heart,

Their daring, nerve, and chivalry
Set Gryffindors apart;

You might belong in Hufflepuff,

Where they are just and loyal,

Those patient Hufflepuffs are true
And unafraid of toil;

Or yet in wise old Ravenclaw,

If you’ve a ready mind,

Where those of wit and learning,

Will always find their kind;

Or perhaps in Slytherin

Page | 132 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




You’ll make your real friends,

Those cunning folk use any means
To achieve their ends.

So put me on! Don’t be afraid l\

And don’t get in a flap\

You’re in safe hands (though I have none)

For I’m a Thinking Cap\”

The whole hall burst into applause as the hat finished
its song. It bowed to each of the four tables and then
became quite still again.

“So we’ve just got to try on the hat!” Ron whispered to
Harry. “I’ll kill Fred, he was going on about wrestling
a troll.”

Harry smiled weakly. Yes, trying on the hat was a lot
better than having to do a spell, but he did wish they
could have tried it on without everyone watching. The
hat seemed to be asking rather a lot; Harry didn’t feel
brave or quick-witted or any of it at the moment. If
only the hat had mentioned a House for people who
felt a bit queasy, that would have been the one for
him.

Professor McGonagall now stepped forward holding a
long roll of parchment.

“When I call your name, you will put on the hat and
sit on the stool to be sorted,” she said. “Abbott,
Hannah!”



Page | 133 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




A pink-faced girl with blonde pigtails stumbled out of
line, put on the hat, which fell right down over her
eyes, and sat down. A moment’s pause —

“HUFFLEPUFF!” shouted the hat.

The table on the right cheered and clapped as
Hannah went to sit down at the Hufflepuff table.

Harry saw the ghost of the Fat Friar waving merrily at
her.

“Bones, Susan!”

“HUFFLEPUFF!” shouted the hat again, and Susan
scuttled off to sit next to Hannah.

“Boot, Terry!”

“RAVENCLAW!”

The table second from the left clapped this time;
several Ravenclaws stood up to shake hands with
Terry as he joined them.

“Brocklehurst, Mandy” went to Ravenclaw too, but
“Brown, Lavender” became the first new Gryffindor,
and the table on the far left exploded with cheers;
Harry could see Ron’s twin brothers catcalling.

“Bulstrode, Millicent” then became a Slytherin.
Perhaps it was Harry’s imagination, after all he’d
heard about Slytherin, but he thought they looked
like an unpleasant lot.

He was starting to feel definitely sick now. He
remembered being picked for teams during gym at his
old school. He had always been last to be chosen, not
because he was no good, but because no one wanted
Dudley to think they liked him.

Page | 134 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Finch-Fletchley, Justin!”



“HUFFLEPUFF!”

Sometimes, Harry noticed, the hat shouted out the
House at once, but at others it took a little while to
decide. “Finnigan, Seamus,” the sandy-haired boy
next to Harry in the line, sat on the stool for almost a
whole minute before the hat declared him a
Gryffindor.

“Granger, Hermione!”

Hermione almost ran to the stool and jammed the hat
eagerly on her head.

“GRYFFINDOR!” shouted the hat. Ron groaned.

A horrible thought struck Harry, as horrible thoughts
always do when you’re very nervous. What if he
wasn’t chosen at all? What if he just sat there with
the hat over his eyes for ages, until Professor
McGonagall jerked it off his head and said there had
obviously been a mistake and he’d better get back on
the train?

When Neville Longbottom, the boy who kept losing his
toad, was called, he fell over on his way to the stool.
The hat took a long time to decide with Neville. When
it finally shouted, “GRYFFINDOR,” Neville ran off still
wearing it, and had to jog back amid gales of laughter
to give it to “MacDougal, Morag.”

Malfoy swaggered forward when his name was called
and got his wish at once: the hat had barely touched
his head when it screamed, “SLYTHERIN!”

Malfoy went to join his friends Crabbe and Goyle,
looking pleased with himself.

Page | 135 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




There weren’t many people left now.



“Moon” , “Nott” ... , “Parkinson” ... , then a pair of
twin girls, “Path” and “Path” ... , then “Perks, Sally-
Anne” . . . , and then, at last —

“Potter, Harry!”

As Harry stepped forward, whispers suddenly broke
out like little hissing fires all over the hall.

“ Potter , did she say?”

“ The Harry Potter?”

The last thing Harry saw before the hat dropped over
his eyes was the hall full of people craning to get a
good look at him. Next second he was looking at the
black inside of the hat. He waited.

“Hmm,” said a small voice in his ear. “Difficult. Very
difficult. Plenty of courage, I see. Not a bad mind
either. There’s talent, oh my goodness, yes — and a
nice thirst to prove yourself, now that’s interesting. ...
So where shall I put you?”

Harry gripped the edges of the stool and thought, Not
Slytherin, not Slytherin.

“Not Slytherin, eh?” said the small voice. “Are you
sure? You could be great, you know, it’s all here in
your head, and Slytherin will help you on the way to
greatness, no doubt about that — no? Well, if you’re
sure — better be GRYFFINDOR!”

Harry heard the hat shout the last word to the whole
hall. He took off the hat and walked shakily toward
the Gryffindor table. He was so relieved to have been
chosen and not put in Slytherin, he hardly noticed

Page | 136 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




that he was getting the loudest cheer yet. Percy the
Prefect got up and shook his hand vigorously, while
the Weasley twins yelled, “We got Potter! We got
Potter!” Harry sat down opposite the ghost in the ruff
he’d seen earlier. The ghost patted his arm, giving
Harry the sudden, horrible feeling he’d just plunged it
into a bucket of ice-cold water.

He could see the High Table properly now. At the end
nearest him sat Hagrid, who caught his eye and gave
him the thumbs up. Harry grinned back. And there,
in the center of the High Table, in a large gold chair,
sat Albus Dumbledore. Harry recognized him at once
from the card he’d gotten out of the Chocolate Frog on
the train. Dumbledore’s silver hair was the only thing
in the whole hall that shone as brightly as the ghosts.
Harry spotted Professor Quirrell, too, the nervous
young man from the Leaky Cauldron. He was looking
very peculiar in a large purple turban.

And now there were only four people left to be sorted.
“Thomas, Dean,” a Black boy even taller than Ron,
joined Harry at the Gryffindor table. “Turpin, Lisa,”
became a Ravenclaw and then it was Ron’s turn. He
was pale green by now. Harry crossed his fingers
under the table and a second later the hat had
shouted, “GRYFFINDOR!”

Harry clapped loudly with the rest as Ron collapsed
into the chair next to him.

“Well done, Ron, excellent,” said Percy Weasley
pompously across Harry as “Zabini, Blaise,” was
made a Slytherin. Professor McGonagall rolled up her
scroll and took the Sorting Hat away.

Harry looked down at his empty gold plate. He had
only just realized how hungry he was. The pumpkin
pasties seemed ages ago.

Page | 137 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




Albus Dumbledore had gotten to his feet. He was
beaming at the students, his arms opened wide, as if
nothing could have pleased him more than to see
them all there.

“Welcome!” he said. “Welcome to a new year at
Hogwarts! Before we begin our banquet, I would like
to say a few words. And here they are: Nitwit!

Blubber! Oddment! Tweak!

“Thank you!”

He sat back down. Everybody clapped and cheered.
Harry didn’t know whether to laugh or not.

“Is he — a bit mad?” he asked Percy uncertainly.

“Mad?” said Percy airily. “He’s a genius! Best wizard
in the world! But he is a bit mad, yes. Potatoes,
Harry?”

Harry’s mouth fell open. The dishes in front of him
were now piled with food. He had never seen so many
things he liked to eat on one table: roast beef, roast
chicken, pork chops and lamb chops, sausages,
bacon and steak, boiled potatoes, roast potatoes,
fries, Yorkshire pudding, peas, carrots, gravy,
ketchup, and, for some strange reason, peppermint
humbugs.

The Dursleys had never exactly starved Harry, but
he’d never been allowed to eat as much as he liked.
Dudley had always taken anything that Harry really
wanted, even if it made him sick. Harry piled his plate
with a bit of everything except the peppermints and
began to eat. It was all delicious.

“That does look good,” said the ghost in the ruff sadly,
watching Harry cut up his steak.

Page | 138 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Can’t you — ?”



“I haven’t eaten for nearly five hundred years,” said
the ghost. “I don’t need to, of course, but one does
miss it. I don’t think I’ve introduced myself? Sir
Nicholas de Mimsy-Porpington at your service.
Resident ghost of Gryffindor Tower.”

“I know who you are!” said Ron suddenly. “My
brothers told me about you — you’re Nearly Headless
Nick!”

“I would prefer you to call me Sir Nicholas de Mimsy
— ” the ghost began stiffly, but sandy-haired Seamus
Finnigan interrupted.

“Nearly Headless? How can you be nearly headless?”

Sir Nicholas looked extremely miffed, as if their little
chat wasn’t going at all the way he wanted.

“Like this,” he said irritably. He seized his left ear and
pulled. His whole head swung off his neck and fell
onto his shoulder as if it was on a hinge. Someone
had obviously tried to behead him, but not done it
properly. Looking pleased at the stunned looks on
their faces, Nearly Headless Nick flipped his head
back onto his neck, coughed, and said, “So — new
Gryffindors! I hope you’re going to help us win the
House Championship this year? Gryffindors have
never gone so long without winning. Slytherins have
got the cup six years in a row! The Bloody Baron’s
becoming almost unbearable — he’s the Slytherin
ghost.”

Harry looked over at the Slytherin table and saw a
horrible ghost sitting there, with blank staring eyes, a
gaunt face, and robes stained with silver blood. He
was right next to Malfoy who, Harry was pleased to

Page | 139 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




see, didn’t look too pleased with the seating
arrangements.

“How did he get covered in blood?” asked Seamus
with great interest.

“I’ve never asked,” said Nearly Headless Nick
delicately.

When everyone had eaten as much as they could, the
remains of the food faded from the plates, leaving
them sparkling clean as before. A moment later the
desserts appeared. Blocks of ice cream in every flavor
you could think of, apple pies, treacle tarts, chocolate
eclairs and jam doughnuts, trifle, strawberries, Jell-
0, rice pudding ...

As Harry helped himself to a treacle tart, the talk
turned to their families.

“I’m half-and-half,” said Seamus. “Me dad’s a Muggle.
Mom didn’t tell him she was a witch ’til after they
were married. Bit of a nasty shock for him.”

The others laughed.

“What about you, Neville?” said Ron.

“Well, my gran brought me up and she’s a witch,”
said Neville, “but the family thought I was all- Muggle
for ages. My Great Uncle Algie kept trying to catch me
off my guard and force some magic out of me — he
pushed me off the end of Blackpool pier once, I nearly
drowned — but nothing happened until I was eight.
Great Uncle Algie came round for dinner, and he was
hanging me out of an upstairs window by the ankles
when my Great Auntie Enid offered him a meringue
and he accidentally let go. But I bounced — all the
way down the garden and into the road. They were all
Page | 140 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone -J.K. Rowling




really pleased, Gran was crying, she was so happy.
And you should have seen their faces when I got in
here — they thought I might not be magic enough to
come, you see. Great Uncle Algie was so pleased he
bought me my toad.”

On Harry’s other side, Percy Weasley and Hermione
were talking about lessons (“I do hope they start right
away, there’s so much to learn, I’m particularly
interested in Transfiguration, you know, turning
something into something else, of course, it’s
supposed to be very difficult — “You’ll be starting
small, just matches into needles and that sort of
thing — ”).



Harry, who was starting to feel warm and sleepy,
looked up at the High Table again. Hagrid was
drinking deeply from his goblet. Professor McGonagall
was talking to Professor Dumbledore. Professor
Quirrell, in his absurd turban, was talking to a
teacher with greasy black hair, a hooked nose, and
sallow skin.

It happened very suddenly. The hook-nosed teacher
looked past Quirrell’s turban straight into Harry’s
eyes — and a sharp, hot pain shot across the scar on
Harry’s forehead.

“Ouch!” Harry clapped a hand to his head.

“What is it?” asked Percy.

“N-nothing.”

The pain had gone as quickly as it had come. Harder
to shake off was the feeling Harry had gotten from the
teacher’s look — a feeling that he didn’t like Harry at
all.



Page | 141 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Who’s that teacher talking to Professor Quirrell?” he
asked Percy.

“Oh, you know Quirrell already, do you? No wonder
he’s looking so nervous, that’s Professor Snape. He
teaches Potions, but he doesn’t want to — everyone
knows he’s after Quirrell’s job. Knows an awful lot
about the Dark Arts, Snape.”

Harry watched Snape for a while, but Snape didn’t
look at him again.

At last, the desserts too disappeared, and Professor
Dumbledore got to his feet again. The hall fell silent.

“Ahem — just a few more words now that we are all
fed and watered. I have a few start-of-term notices to
give you.

“First years should note that the forest on the
grounds is forbidden to all pupils. And a few of our
older students would do well to remember that as
well.”

Dumbledore ’s twinkling eyes flashed in the direction
of the Weasley twins.

“I have also been asked by Mr. Filch, the caretaker, to
remind you all that no magic should be used between
classes in the corridors.

“Quidditch trials will be held in the second week of
the term. Anyone interested in playing for their House
teams should contact Madam Hooch.

“And finally, I must tell you that this year, the third-
floor corridor on the right-hand side is out of bounds
to everyone who does not wish to die a very painful
death.”

Page | 142 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone -J.K. Rowling




Harry laughed, but he was one of the few who did.



“He’s not serious?” he muttered to Percy.

“Must be,” said Percy, frowning at Dumbledore. “It’s
odd, because he usually gives us a reason why we’re
not allowed to go somewhere — the forest’s full of
dangerous beasts, everyone knows that. I do think he
might have told us prefects, at least.”

“And now, before we go to bed, let us sing the school
song!” cried Dumbledore. Harry noticed that the other
teachers’ smiles had become rather fixed.

Dumbledore gave his wand a little flick, as if he was
trying to get a fly off the end, and a long golden
ribbon flew out of it, which rose high above the tables
and twisted itself, snakelike, into words.

“Everyone pick their favorite tune,” said Dumbledore,
“and off we go!”

And the school bellowed:

“Hogwarts, Hogwarts, Hoggy Warty Hogwarts,

Teach us something please,

Whether we be old and bald
Or young with scabby knees,

Our heads could do with filling
With some interesting stuff,

For now they’re bare and full of air,

Dead flies and bits of fluff,

Page | 143 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone -J.K. Rowling




So teach us things worth knowing,

Bring back what we’ve forgot,

Just do your best, we’ll do the rest,

And learn until our brains all rot.”

Everybody finished the song at different times. At last,
only the Weasley twins were left singing along to a
very slow funeral march. Dumbledore conducted their
last few lines with his wand and when they had
finished, he was one of those who clapped loudest.

“Ah, music,” he said, wiping his eyes. “A magic
beyond all we do here! And now, bedtime. Off you
trot!”

The Gryffindor first years followed Percy through the
chattering crowds, out of the Great Hall, and up the
marble staircase. Harry’s legs were like lead again,
but only because he was so tired and full of food. He
was too sleepy even to be surprised that the people in
the portraits along the corridors whispered and
pointed as they passed, or that twice Percy led them
through doorways hidden behind sliding panels and
hanging tapestries. They climbed more staircases,
yawning and dragging their feet, and Harry was just
wondering how much farther they had to go when
they came to a sudden halt.

A bundle of walking sticks was floating in midair
ahead of them, and as Percy took a step toward them
they started throwing themselves at him.

“Peeves,” Percy whispered to the first years. “A
poltergeist.” He raised his voice, “Peeves — show
yourself.”



Page | 144 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




A loud, rude sound, like the air being let out of a
balloon, answered.

“Do you want me to go to the Bloody Baron?”

There was a pop, and a little man with wicked, dark
eyes and a wide mouth appeared, floating cross-
legged in the air, clutching the walking sticks.

“Oooooooh!” he said, with an evil cackle. “Ickle
Firsties! What fun!”

He swooped suddenly at them. They all ducked.

“Go away, Peeves, or the Baron’ll hear about this, I
mean it!” barked Percy.

Peeves stuck out his tongue and vanished, dropping
the walking sticks on Neville’s head. They heard him
zooming away, rattling coats of armor as he passed.

“You want to watch out for Peeves,” said Percy, as
they set off again. “The Bloody Baron’s the only one
who can control him, he won’t even listen to us
prefects. Here we are.”

At the very end of the corridor hung a portrait of a
very fat woman in a pink silk dress.

“Password?” she said.

“Caput Draconis,” said Percy, and the portrait swung
forward to reveal a round hole in the wall. They all
scrambled through it — Neville needed a leg up —
and found themselves in the Gryffindor common
room, a cozy, round room full of squashy armchairs.

Percy directed the girls through one door to their
dormitory and the boys through another. At the top of

Page | 145 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone -J.K. Rowling




a spiral staircase — they were obviously in one of the
towers — they found their beds at last: five four-
posters hung with deep red, velvet curtains. Their
trunks had already been brought up. Too tired to talk
much, they pulled on their pajamas and fell into bed.

“Great food, isn’t it?” Ron muttered to Harry through
the hangings. “Get off Scabbers! He’s chewing my
sheets.”

Harry was going to ask Ron if he’d had any of the
treacle tart, but he fell asleep almost at once.

Perhaps Harry had eaten a bit too much, because he
had a very strange dream. He was wearing Professor
Quirrell’s turban, which kept talking to him, telling
him he must transfer to Slytherin at once, because it
was his destiny. Harry told the turban he didn’t want
to be in Slytherin; it got heavier and heavier; he tried
to pull it off but it tightened painfully — and there
was Malfoy, laughing at him as he struggled with it —
then Malfoy turned into the hook-nosed teacher,
Snape, whose laugh became high and cold — there
was a burst of green light and Harry woke, sweating
and shaking.

He rolled over and fell asleep again, and when he
woke next day, he didn’t remember the dream at all.



Page | 146 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling






THE POTIONS MASTER

“There, look.”

“Where?”

“Next to the tall kid with the red hair.”

“Wearing the glasses?”

“Did you see his face?”

“Did you see his scar?”

Whispers followed Harry from the moment he left his
dormitory the next day. People lining up outside
classrooms stood on tiptoe to get a look at him, or
doubled back to pass him in the corridors again,
staring. Harry wished they wouldn’t, because he was
trying to concentrate on finding his way to classes.

There were a hundred and forty-two staircases at
Hogwarts: wide, sweeping ones; narrow, rickety ones;
some that led somewhere different on a Friday; some

Page | 147 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone -J.K. Rowling



with a vanishing step halfway up that you had to
remember to jump. Then there were doors that
wouldn’t open unless you asked politely, or tickled
them in exactly the right place, and doors that weren’t
really doors at all, but solid walls just pretending. It
was also very hard to remember where anything was,
because it all seemed to move around a lot. The
people in the portraits kept going to visit each other,
and Harry was sure the coats of armor could walk.

The ghosts didn’t help, either. It was always a nasty
shock when one of them glided suddenly through a
door you were trying to open. Nearly Headless Nick
was always happy to point new Gryffindors in the
right direction, but Peeves the Poltergeist was worth
two locked doors and a trick staircase if you met him
when you were late for class. He would drop
wastepaper baskets on your head, pull rugs from
under your feet, pelt you with bits of chalk, or sneak
up behind you, invisible, grab your nose, and screech,
“GOT YOUR CONK!”

Even worse than Peeves, if that was possible, was the
caretaker, Argus Filch. Harry and Ron managed to get
on the wrong side of him on their very first morning.
Filch found them trying to force their way through a
door that unluckily turned out to be the entrance to
the out-of-bounds corridor on the third floor. He
wouldn’t believe they were lost, was sure they were
trying to break into it on purpose, and was
threatening to lock them in the dungeons when they
were rescued by Professor Quirrell, who was passing.

Filch owned a cat called Mrs. Norris, a scrawny, dust-
colored creature with bulging, lamplike eyes just like
Filch’s. She patrolled the corridors alone. Break a rule
in front of her, put just one toe out of line, and she’d
whisk off for Filch, who’d appear, wheezing, two
seconds later. Filch knew the secret passageways of
Page | 148 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone -J.K. Rowling




the school better than anyone (except perhaps the
Weasley twins) and could pop up as suddenly as any
of the ghosts. The students all hated him, and it was
the dearest ambition of many to give Mrs. Norris a
good kick.

And then, once you had managed to find them, there
were the classes themselves. There was a lot more to
magic, as Harry quickly found out, than waving your
wand and saying a few funny words.

They had to study the night skies through their
telescopes every Wednesday at midnight and learn
the names of different stars and the movements of the
planets. Three times a week they went out to the
greenhouses behind the castle to study Herbology,
with a dumpy little witch called Professor Sprout,
where they learned how to take care of all the strange
plants and fungi, and found out what they were used
for.

Easily the most boring class was History of Magic,
which was the only one taught by a ghost. Professor
Binns had been very old indeed when he had fallen
asleep in front of the staff room fire and got up next
morning to teach, leaving his body behind him. Binns
droned on and on while they scribbled down names
and dates, and got Emeric the Evil and Uric the
Oddball mixed up.

Professor Flitwick, the Charms teacher, was a tiny
little wizard who had to stand on a pile of books to
see over his desk. At the start of their first class he
took the roll call, and when he reached Harry’s name
he gave an excited squeak and toppled out of sight.

Professor McGonagall was again different. Harry had
been quite right to think she wasn’t a teacher to



Page | 149 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




cross. Strict and clever, she gave them a talking- to
the moment they sat down in her first class.

“Transfiguration is some of the most complex and
dangerous magic you will learn at Hogwarts,” she
said. “Anyone messing around in my class will leave
and not come back. You have been warned.”

Then she changed her desk into a pig and back again.
They were all very impressed and couldn’t wait to get
started, but soon realized they weren’t going to be
changing the furniture into animals for a long time.
After taking a lot of complicated notes, they were each
given a match and started trying to turn it into a
needle. By the end of the lesson, only Hermione
Granger had made any difference to her match;
Professor McGonagall showed the class how it had
gone all silver and pointy and gave Hermione a rare
smile.

The class everyone had really been looking forward to
was Defense Against the Dark Arts, but Quirrell’s
lessons turned out to be a bit of a joke. His classroom
smelled strongly of garlic, which everyone said was to
ward off a vampire he’d met in Romania and was
afraid would be coming back to get him one of these
days. His turban, he told them, had been given to him
by an African prince as a thank-you for getting rid of
a troublesome zombie, but they weren’t sure they
believed this story. For one thing, when Seamus
Finnigan asked eagerly to hear how Quirrell had
fought off the zombie, Quirrell went pink and started
talking about the weather; for another, they had
noticed that a funny smell hung around the turban,
and the Weasley twins insisted that it was stuffed full
of garlic as well, so that Quirrell was protected
wherever he went.



Page | 150 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




Harry was very relieved to find out that he wasn’t
miles behind everyone else. Lots of people had come
from Muggle families and, like him, hadn’t had any
idea that they were witches and wizards. There was so
much to learn that even people like Ron didn’t have
much of a head start.

Friday was an important day for Harry and Ron. They
finally managed to find their way down to the Great
Hall for breakfast without getting lost once.

“What have we got today?” Harry asked Ron as he
poured sugar on his porridge.

“Double Potions with the Slytherins,” said Ron.
“Snape’s Head of Slytherin House. They say he always
favors them — we’ll be able to see if it’s true.”

“Wish McGonagall favored us,” said Harry. Professor
McGonagall was head of Gryffindor House, but it
hadn’t stopped her from giving them a huge pile of
homework the day before.

Just then, the mail arrived. Harry had gotten used to
this by now, but it had given him a bit of a shock on
the first morning, when about a hundred owls had
suddenly streamed into the Great Hall during
breakfast, circling the tables until they saw their
owners, and dropping letters and packages onto their
laps.

Hedwig hadn’t brought Harry anything so far. She
sometimes flew in to nibble his ear and have a bit of
toast before going off to sleep in the owlery with the
other school owls. This morning, however, she
fluttered down between the marmalade and the sugar
bowl and dropped a note onto Harry’s plate. Harry
tore it open at once. It said, in a very untidy scrawl:



Page | 151 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




Dear Harry,



I know you get Friday afternoons off so would you like
to come and have a cup of tea with me around three?

I want to hear all about your first week. Send us an
answer back with Hedwig.

Hagrid

Harry borrowed Ron’s quill, scribbled Yes, please, see
you later on the back of the note, and sent Hedwig off
again.

It was lucky that Harry had tea with Hagrid to look
forward to, because the Potions lesson turned out to
be the worst thing that had happened to him so far.

At the start-of-term banquet, Harry had gotten the
idea that Professor Snape disliked him. By the end of
the first Potions lesson, he knew he’d been wrong.
Snape didn’t dislike Harry — he hated him.

Potions lessons took place down in one of the
dungeons. It was colder here than up in the main
castle, and would have been quite creepy enough
without the pickled animals floating in glass jars all
around the walls.

Snape, like Flitwick, started the class by taking the
roll call, and like Flitwick, he paused at Harry’s name.

“Ah, yes,” he said softly, “Harry Potter. Our new —
celebrity.”

Draco Malfoy and his friends Crabbe and Goyle
sniggered behind their hands. Snape finished calling
the names and looked up at the class. His eyes were
black like Hagrid ’s, but they had none of Hagrid ’s

Page | 152 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




warmth. They were cold and empty and made you
think of dark tunnels.

“You are here to learn the subtle science and exact art
of potion-making,” he began. He spoke in barely more
than a whisper, but they caught every word — like
Professor McGonagall, Snape had the gift of keeping a
class silent without effort. “As there is little foolish
wand- waving here, many of you will hardly believe
this is magic. I don’t expect you will really understand
the beauty of the softly simmering cauldron with its
shimmering fumes, the delicate power of liquids that
creep through human veins, bewitching the mind,
ensnaring the senses. ... I can teach you how to bottle
fame, brew glory, even stopper death — if you aren’t
as big a bunch of dunderheads as I usually have to
teach.”

More silence followed this little speech. Harry and
Ron exchanged looks with raised eyebrows. Hermione
Granger was on the edge of her seat and looked
desperate to start proving that she wasn’t a
dunderhead.

“Potter!” said Snape suddenly. “What would I get if I
added powdered root of asphodel to an infusion of
wormwood?”

Powdered root of what to an infusion of what? Harry
glanced at Ron, who looked as stumped as he was;
Hermione ’s hand had shot into the air.

“I don’t know, sir,” said Harry.

Snape ’s lips curled into a sneer.

“Tut, tut — fame clearly isn’t everything.”

He ignored Hermione ’s hand.

Page | 153 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Let’s try again. Potter, where would you look if I told
you to find me a bezoar?”

Hermione stretched her hand as high into the air as it
would go without her leaving her seat, but Harry
didn’t have the faintest idea what a bezoar was. He
tried not to look at Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle, who
were shaking with laughter.

“I don’t know, sir.”

“Thought you wouldn’t open a book before coming,
eh, Potter?”

Harry forced himself to keep looking straight into
those cold eyes. He had looked through his books at
the Dursleys’, but did Snape expect him to remember
everything in One Thousand Magical Herbs and
Fungi ?

Snape was still ignoring Hermione’s quivering hand.

“What is the difference, Potter, between monkshood
and wolfsbane?”

At this, Hermione stood up, her hand stretching
toward the dungeon ceiling.

“I don’t know,” said Harry quietly. “I think Hermione
does, though, why don’t you try her?”

A few people laughed; Harry caught Seamus’s eye,
and Seamus winked. Snape, however, was not
pleased.

“Sit down,” he snapped at Hermione. “For your
information, Potter, asphodel and wormwood make a
sleeping potion so powerful it is known as the
Draught of Living Death. A bezoar is a stone taken

Page | 154 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




from the stomach of a goat and it will save you from
most poisons. As for monkshood and wolfsbane, they
are the same plant, which also goes by the name of
aconite. Well? Why aren’t you all copying that down?”

There was a sudden rummaging for quills and
parchment. Over the noise, Snape said, “And a point
will be taken from Gryffindor House for your cheek,
Potter.”

Things didn’t improve for the Gryffindors as the
Potions lesson continued. Snape put them all into
pairs and set them to mixing up a simple potion to
cure boils. He swept around in his long black cloak,
watching them weigh dried nettles and crush snake
fangs, criticizing almost everyone except Malfoy,
whom he seemed to like. He was just telling everyone
to look at the perfect way Malfoy had stewed his
horned slugs when clouds of acid green smoke and a
loud hissing filled the dungeon. Neville had somehow
managed to melt Seamus’s cauldron into a twisted
blob, and their potion was seeping across the stone
floor, burning holes in people’s shoes. Within
seconds, the whole class was standing on their stools
while Neville, who had been drenched in the potion
when the cauldron collapsed, moaned in pain as
angry red boils sprang up all over his arms and legs.

“Idiot boy!” snarled Snape, clearing the spilled potion
away with one wave of his wand. “I suppose you
added the porcupine quills before taking the cauldron
off the fire?”

Neville whimpered as boils started to pop up all over
his nose.

“Take him up to the hospital wing,” Snape spat at
Seamus. Then he rounded on Harry and Ron, who
had been working next to Neville.

Page | 155 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“You — Potter — why didn’t you tell him not to add
the quills? Thought he’d make you look good if he got
it wrong, did you? That’s another point you’ve lost for
Gryffindor.”

This was so unfair that Harry opened his mouth to
argue, but Ron kicked him behind their cauldron.

“Don’t push it,” he muttered, “I’ve heard Snape can
turn very nasty.”

As they climbed the steps out of the dungeon an hour
later, Harry’s mind was racing and his spirits were
low. He’d lost two points for Gryffindor in his very
first week — why did Snape hate him so much?

“Cheer up,” said Ron, “Snape’s always taking points
off Fred and George. Can I come and meet Hagrid
with you?”

At five to three they left the castle and made their way
across the grounds. Hagrid lived in a small wooden
house on the edge of the forbidden forest. A crossbow
and a pair of galoshes were outside the front door.

When Harry knocked they heard a frantic scrabbling
from inside and several booming barks. Then Hagrid ’s
voice rang out, saying, “Back, Fang — back.”

Hagrid ’s big, hairy face appeared in the crack as he
pulled the door open.

“Hang on,” he said. “Back, Fang.”

He let them in, struggling to keep a hold on the collar
of an enormous black boarhound.

There was only one room inside. Hams and pheasants
were hanging from the ceiling, a copper kettle was

Page | 156 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




boiling on the open fire, and in the corner stood a
massive bed with a patchwork quilt over it.

“Make yerselves at home,” said Hagrid, letting go of
Fang, who bounded straight at Ron and started
licking his ears. Like Hagrid, Fang was clearly not as
fierce as he looked.

“This is Ron,” Harry told Hagrid, who was pouring
boiling water into a large teapot and putting rock
cakes onto a plate.

“Another Weasley, eh?” said Hagrid, glancing at Ron’s
freckles. “I spent half me life chasin’ yer twin brothers
away from the forest.”

The rock cakes were shapeless lumps with raisins
that almost broke their teeth, but Harry and Ron
pretended to be enjoying them as they told Hagrid all
about their first lessons. Fang rested his head on
Harry’s knee and drooled all over his robes.

Harry and Ron were delighted to hear Hagrid call
Filch “that old git.”

“An’ as fer that cat, Mrs. Norris, I’d like ter introduce
her to Fang sometime. D’yeh know, every time I go up
ter the school, she follows me everywhere? Can’t get
rid of her — Filch puts her up to it.”

Harry told Hagrid about Snape’s lesson. Hagrid, like
Ron, told Harry not to worry about it, that Snape
liked hardly any of the students.

“But he seemed to really hate me.”

“Rubbish!” said Hagrid. “Why should he?”



Page | 157 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




Yet Harry couldn’t help thinking that Hagrid didn’t
quite meet his eyes when he said that.

“How’s yer brother Charlie?” Hagrid asked Ron. “I
liked him a lot — great with animals.”

Harry wondered if Hagrid had changed the subject on
purpose. While Ron told Hagrid all about Charlie’s
work with dragons, Harry picked up a piece of paper
that was lying on the table under the tea cozy. It was
a cutting from the Daily Prophet :

GRINGOTTS BREAK-IN LATEST

Investigations continue into the break-in at Gringotts
on 3 1 July, widely believed to be the work of Dark
wizards or witches unknown.

Gringotts goblins today insisted that nothing had
been taken. The vault that was searched had in fact
been emptied the same day.

“But we’re not telling you what was in there, so keep
your noses out if you know what’s good for you,” said
a Gringotts spokesgoblin this afternoon.

Harry remembered Ron telling him on the train that
someone had tried to rob Gringotts, but Ron hadn’t
mentioned the date.

“Hagrid!” said Harry, “that Gringotts break-in
happened on my birthday! It might’ve been happening
while we were there!”

There was no doubt about it, Hagrid definitely didn’t
meet Harry’s eyes this time. He grunted and offered
him another rock cake. Harry read the story again.

The vault that was searched had in fact been emptied
earlier that same day. Hagrid had emptied vault seven
Page | 158 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




hundred and thirteen, if you could call it emptying,
taking out that grubby little package. Had that been
what the thieves were looking for?

As Harry and Ron walked back to the castle for
dinner, their pockets weighed down with rock cakes
they’d been too polite to refuse, Harry thought that
none of the lessons he’d had so far had given him as
much to think about as tea with Hagrid. Had Hagrid
collected that package just in time? Where was it
now? And did Hagrid know something about Snape
that he didn’t want to tell Harry?



Page | 159 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




9




THE MIDNIGHT DUEL

Harry had never believed he would meet a boy he
hated more than Dudley, but that was before he met
Draco Malfoy. Still, first-year Gryffindors only had
Potions with the Slytherins, so they didn’t have to put
up with Malfoy much. Or at least, they didn’t until
they spotted a notice pinned up in the Gryffindor
common room that made them all groan. Flying
lessons would be starting on Thursday — and
Gryffindor and Slytherin would be learning together.

“Typical,” said Harry darkly. “Just what I always
wanted. To make a fool of myself on a broomstick in
front of Malfoy.”

He had been looking forward to learning to fly more
than anything else.

“You don’t know that you’ll make a fool of yourself,”
said Ron reasonably. “Anyway, I know Malfoy’s always
going on about how good he is at Quidditch, but I bet
that’s all talk.”

Page | 160 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone -J.K. Rowling



Malfoy certainly did talk about flying a lot. He
complained loudly about first years never getting on
the House Quidditch teams and told long, boastful
stories that always seemed to end with him narrowly
escaping Muggles in helicopters. He wasn’t the only
one, though: the way Seamus Finnigan told it, he’d
spent most of his childhood zooming around the
countryside on his broomstick. Even Ron would tell
anyone who’d listen about the time he’d almost hit a
hang glider on Charlie’s old broom. Everyone from
wizarding families talked about Quidditch constantly.
Ron had already had a big argument with Dean
Thomas, who shared their dormitory, about soccer.
Ron couldn’t see what was exciting about a game with
only one ball where no one was allowed to fly. Harry
had caught Ron prodding Dean’s poster of West Ham
soccer team, trying to make the players move.

Neville had never been on a broomstick in his life,
because his grandmother had never let him near one.
Privately, Harry felt she’d had good reason, because
Neville managed to have an extraordinary number of
accidents even with both feet on the ground.

Hermione Granger was almost as nervous about
flying as Neville was. This was something you couldn’t
learn by heart out of a book — not that she hadn’t
tried. At breakfast on Thursday she bored them all
stupid with flying tips she’d gotten out of a library
book called Quidditch Through the Ages. Neville was
hanging on to her every word, desperate for anything
that might help him hang on to his broomstick later,
but everybody else was very pleased when Hermione ’s
lecture was interrupted by the arrival of the mail.

Harry hadn’t had a single letter since Hagrid’s note,
something that Malfoy had been quick to notice, of
course. Malfoy ’s eagle owl was always bringing him



Page | 161 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




packages of sweets from home, which he opened
gloatingly at the Slytherin table.

A barn owl brought Neville a small package from his
grandmother. He opened it excitedly and showed
them a glass ball the size of a large marble, which
seemed to be full of white smoke.

“It’s a Remembrall!” he explained. “Gran knows I
forget things — this tells you if there’s something
you’ve forgotten to do. Look, you hold it tight like this
and if it turns red — oh ...” His face fell, because the
Remembrall had suddenly glowed scarlet, “... you’ve
forgotten something ...”

Neville was trying to remember what he’d forgotten
when Draco Malfoy, who was passing the Gryffindor
table, snatched the Remembrall out of his hand.

Harry and Ron jumped to their feet. They were half
hoping for a reason to fight Malfoy, but Professor
McGonagall, who could spot trouble quicker than any
teacher in the school, was there in a flash.

“What’s going on?”

“Malfoy’s got my Remembrall, Professor.”

Scowling, Malfoy quickly dropped the Remembrall
back on the table.

“Just looking,” he said, and he sloped away with
Crabbe and Goyle behind him.

At three-thirty that afternoon, Harry, Ron, and the
other Gryffindors hurried down the front steps onto
the grounds for their first flying lesson. It was a clear,
breezy day, and the grass rippled under their feet as
they marched down the sloping lawns toward a
Page | 162 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




smooth, flat lawn on the opposite side of the grounds
to the forbidden forest, whose trees were swaying
darkly in the distance.

The Slytherins were already there, and so were twenty
broomsticks lying in neat lines on the ground. Harry
had heard Fred and George Weasley complain about
the school brooms, saying that some of them started
to vibrate if you flew too high, or always flew slightly
to the left.

Their teacher, Madam Hooch, arrived. She had short,
gray hair, and yellow eyes like a hawk.

“Well, what are you all waiting for?” she barked.
“Everyone stand by a broomstick. Come on, hurry
up.” "

Harry glanced down at his broom. It was old and
some of the twigs stuck out at odd angles.

“Stick out your right hand over your broom,” called
Madam Hooch at the front, “and say ‘Up!’ ”

“UP!” everyone shouted.

Harry’s broom jumped into his hand at once, but it
was one of the few that did. Hermione Granger’s had
simply rolled over on the ground, and Neville’s hadn’t
moved at all. Perhaps brooms, like horses, could tell
when you were afraid, thought Harry; there was a
quaver in Neville’s voice that said only too clearly that
he wanted to keep his feet on the ground.

Madam Hooch then showed them how to mount their
brooms without sliding off the end, and walked up
and down the rows correcting their grips. Harry and
Ron were delighted when she told Malfoy he’d been
doing it wrong for years.

Page | 163 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Now, when I blow my whistle, you kick off from the
ground, hard,” said Madam Hooch. “Keep your
brooms steady, rise a few feet, and then come straight
back down by leaning forward slightly. On my whistle
— three — two — ”

But Neville, nervous and jumpy and frightened of
being left on the ground, pushed off hard before the
whistle had touched Madam Hooch’s lips.

“Come back, boy!” she shouted, but Neville was rising
straight up like a cork shot out of a bottle — twelve
feet — twenty feet. Harry saw his scared white face
look down at the ground falling away, saw him gasp,
slip sideways off the broom and —

WHAM — a thud and a nasty crack and Neville lay
facedown on the grass in a heap. His broomstick was
still rising higher and higher, and started to drift
lazily toward the forbidden forest and out of sight.

Madam Hooch was bending over Neville, her face as
white as his.

“Broken wrist,” Harry heard her mutter. “Come on,
boy — it’s all right, up you get.”

She turned to the rest of the class.

“None of you is to move while I take this boy to the
hospital wing! You leave those brooms where they are
or you’ll be out of Hogwarts before you can say
‘Quidditch.’ Come on, dear.”

Neville, his face tear-streaked, clutching his wrist,
hobbled off with Madam Hooch, who had her arm
around him.



Page | 164 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




No sooner were they out of earshot than Malfoy burst
into laughter.

“Did you see his face, the great lump?”

The other Slytherins joined in.

“Shut up, Malfoy,” snapped Parvati Patil.

“Ooh, sticking up for Longbottom?” said Pansy
Parkinson, a hard-faced Slytherin girl. “Never thought
you’d like fat little crybabies, Parvati.”

“Look!” said Malfoy, darting forward and snatching
something out of the grass. “It’s that stupid thing
Longbottom’s gran sent him.”

The Remembrall glittered in the sun as he held it up.

“Give that here, Malfoy,” said Harry quietly. Everyone
stopped talking to watch.

Malfoy smiled nastily.

“I think I’ll leave it somewhere for Longbottom to find
— how about — up a tree?”

“Give it here!” Harry yelled, but Malfoy had leapt onto
his broomstick and taken off. He hadn’t been lying, he
could fly well. Hovering level with the topmost
branches of an oak he called, “Come and get it,
Potter!”

Harry grabbed his broom.

“iVo!” shouted Hermione Granger. “Madam Hooch told
us not to move — you’ll get us all into trouble.”



Page | 165 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




Harry ignored her. Blood was pounding in his ears.

He mounted the broom and kicked hard against the
ground and up, up he soared; air rushed through his
hair, and his robes whipped out behind him — and in
a rush of fierce joy he realized he’d found something
he could do without being taught — this was easy,
this was wonderful. He pulled his broomstick up a
little to take it even higher, and heard screams and
gasps of girls back on the ground and an admiring
whoop from Ron.

He turned his broomstick sharply to face Malfoy in
midair. Malfoy looked stunned.

“Give it here,” Harry called, “or I’ll knock you off that
broom!”

“Oh, yeah?” said Malfoy, trying to sneer, but looking
worried.

Harry knew, somehow, what to do. He leaned forward
and grasped the broom tightly in both hands, and it
shot toward Malfoy like a javelin. Malfoy only just got
out of the way in time; Harry made a sharp about-
face and held the broom steady. A few people below
were clapping.

“No Crabbe and Goyle up here to save your neck,
Malfoy,” Harry called.

The same thought seemed to have struck Malfoy.

“Catch it if you can, then!” he shouted, and he threw
the glass ball high into the air and streaked back
toward the ground.

Harry saw, as though in slow motion, the ball rise up
in the air and then start to fall. He leaned forward
and pointed his broom handle down — next second

Page | 166 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




he was gathering speed in a steep dive, racing the ball
— wind whistled in his ears, mingled with the
screams of people watching — he stretched out his
hand — a foot from the ground he caught it, just in
time to pull his broom straight, and he toppled gently
onto the grass with the Remembrall clutched safely in
his fist.

“HARRY POTTER!”

His heart sank faster than he’d just dived. Professor
McGonagall was running toward them. He got to his
feet, trembling.

“Never — in all my time at Hogwarts — ”

Professor McGonagall was almost speechless with
shock, and her glasses flashed furiously, “ — how dare
you — might have broken your neck — ”

“It wasn’t his fault, Professor — ”

“Be quiet, Miss Patil — ”

“But Malfoy — ”

“That’s enough, Mr. Weasley. Potter, follow me, now.”

Harry caught sight of Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle’s
triumphant faces as he left, walking numbly in
Professor McGonagall’s wake as she strode toward the
castle. He was going to be expelled, he just knew it.

He wanted to say something to defend himself, but
there seemed to be something wrong with his voice.
Professor McGonagall was sweeping along without
even looking at him; he had to jog to keep up. Now
he’d done it. He hadn’t even lasted two weeks. He’d be
packing his bags in ten minutes. What would the
Dursleys say when he turned up on the doorstep?
Page | 167 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




Up the front steps, up the marble staircase inside,
and still Professor McGonagall didn’t say a word to
him. She wrenched open doors and marched along
corridors with Harry trotting miserably behind her.
Maybe she was taking him to Dumbledore. He
thought of Hagrid, expelled but allowed to stay on as
gamekeeper. Perhaps he could be Hagrid’s assistant.
His stomach twisted as he imagined it, watching Ron
and the others becoming wizards while he stumped
around the grounds carrying Hagrid’s bag.

Professor McGonagall stopped outside a classroom.
She opened the door and poked her head inside.

“Excuse me, Professor Flitwick, could I borrow Wood
for a moment?”

Wood? thought Harry, bewildered; was Wood a cane
she was going to use on him?

But Wood turned out to be a person, a burly fifth-year
boy who came out of Flitwick’s class looking
confused.

“Follow me, you two,” said Professor McGonagall, and
they marched on up the corridor, Wood looking
curiously at Harry.

“In here.”

Professor McGonagall pointed them into a classroom
that was empty except for Peeves, who was busy
writing rude words on the blackboard.

“Out, Peeves!” she barked. Peeves threw the chalk
into a bin, which clanged loudly, and he swooped out
cursing. Professor McGonagall slammed the door
behind him and turned to face the two boys.



Page | 168 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Potter, this is Oliver Wood. Wood — I’ve found you a
Seeker.”

Wood’s expression changed from puzzlement to
delight.

“Are you serious, Professor?”

“Absolutely,” said Professor McGonagall crisply. “The
boy’s a natural. I’ve never seen anything like it. Was
that your first time on a broomstick, Potter?”

Harry nodded silently. He didn’t have a clue what was
going on, but he didn’t seem to be being expelled, and
some of the feeling started coming back to his legs.

“He caught that thing in his hand after a fifty-foot
dive,” Professor McGonagall told Wood. “Didn’t even
scratch himself. Charlie Weasley couldn’t have done
it.”

Wood was now looking as though all his dreams had
come true at once.

“Ever seen a game of Quidditch, Potter?” he asked
excitedly.

“Wood’s captain of the Gryffindor team,” Professor
McGonagall explained.

“He’s just the build for a Seeker, too,” said Wood, now
walking around Harry and staring at him. “Light —
speedy — we’ll have to get him a decent broom,
Professor — a Nimbus Two Thousand or a
Cleansweep Seven, I’d say.”

“I shall speak to Professor Dumbledore and see if we
can’t bend the first-year rule. Heaven knows, we need
a better team than last year. Flattened in that last

Page | 169 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




match by Slytherin, I couldn’t look Severus Snape in
the face for weeks. ...”

Professor McGonagall peered sternly over her glasses
at Harry.

“I want to hear you’re training hard, Potter, or I may
change my mind about punishing you.”

Then she suddenly smiled.

“Your father would have been proud,” she said. “He
was an excellent Quidditch player himself.”

“You’re joking.”

It was dinnertime. Harry had just finished telling Ron
what had happened when he’d left the grounds with
Professor McGonagall. Ron had a piece of steak and
kidney pie halfway to his mouth, but he’d forgotten all
about it.

“Seeker?” he said. “But first years never — you must
be the youngest House player in about — ”

“ — a century,” said Harry, shoveling pie into his
mouth. He felt particularly hungry after the
excitement of the afternoon. “Wood told me.”

Ron was so amazed, so impressed, he just sat and
gaped at Harry.

“I start training next week,” said Harry. “Only don’t
tell anyone, Wood wants to keep it a secret.”

Fred and George Weasley now came into the hall,
spotted Harry, and hurried over.



Page | 170 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Well done,” said George in a low voice. “Wood told us.
We’re on the team too — Beaters.”

“I tell you, we’re going to win that Quidditch Cup for
sure this year,” said Fred. “We haven’t won since
Charlie left, but this year’s team is going to be
brilliant. You must be good, Harry, Wood was almost
skipping when he told us.”

“Anyway, we’ve got to go, Lee Jordan reckons he’s
found a new secret passageway out of the school.”

“Bet it’s that one behind the statue of Gregory the
Smarmy that we found in our first week. See you.”

Fred and George had hardly disappeared when
someone far less welcome turned up: Malfoy, flanked
by Crabbe and Goyle.

“Having a last meal, Potter? When are you getting the
train back to the Muggles?”

“You’re a lot braver now that you’re back on the
ground and you’ve got your little friends with you,”
said Harry coolly. There was of course nothing at all
little about Crabbe and Goyle, but as the High Table
was full of teachers, neither of them could do more
than crack their knuckles and scowl.

“I’d take you on anytime on my own,” said Malfoy.
“Tonight, if you want. Wizard’s duel. Wands only —
no contact. What’s the matter? Never heard of a
wizard’s duel before, I suppose?”

“Of course he has,” said Ron, wheeling around. “I’m
his second, who’s yours?”

Malfoy looked at Crabbe and Goyle, sizing them up.



Page | 171 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Crabbe,” he said. “Midnight all right? Well meet you
in the trophy room; that’s always unlocked.”

When Malfoy had gone, Ron and Harry looked at each
other.

“What is a wizard’s duel?” said Harry. “And what do
you mean, you’re my second?”

“Well, a second’s there to take over if you die,” said
Ron casually, getting started at last on his cold pie.
Catching the look on Harry’s face, he added quickly,
“But people only die in proper duels, you know, with
real wizards. The most you and Malfoy’ll be able to do
is send sparks at each other. Neither of you knows
enough magic to do any real damage. I bet he
expected you to refuse, anyway.”

“And what if I wave my wand and nothing happens?”

“Throw it away and punch him on the nose,” Ron
suggested.

“Excuse me.”

They both looked up. It was Hermione Granger.

“Can’t a person eat in peace in this place?” said Ron.

Hermione ignored him and spoke to Harry.

“I couldn’t help overhearing what you and Malfoy
were saying — ”

“Bet you could,” Ron muttered.

“ — and you mustn’t go wandering around the school
at night, think of the points you’ll lose Gryffindor if



Page | 172 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




you’re caught, and you’re bound to be. It’s really very
selfish of you.”

“And it’s really none of your business,” said Harry.
“Good-bye,” said Ron.

All the same, it wasn’t what you’d call the perfect end
to the day, Harry thought, as he lay awake much later
listening to Dean and Seamus falling asleep (Neville
wasn’t back from the hospital wing). Ron had spent
all evening giving him advice such as “If he tries to
curse you, you’d better dodge it, because I can’t
remember how to block them.” There was a very good
chance they were going to get caught by Filch or Mrs.
Norris, and Harry felt he was pushing his luck,
breaking another school rule today. On the other
hand, Malfoy’s sneering face kept looming up out of
the darkness — this was his big chance to beat
Malfoy face-to-face. He couldn’t miss it.

“Half-past eleven,” Ron muttered at last, “we’d better
go.”

They pulled on their bathrobes, picked up their
wands, and crept across the tower room, down the
spiral staircase, and into the Gryffindor common
room. A few embers were still glowing in the fireplace,
turning all the armchairs into hunched black
shadows. They had almost reached the portrait hole
when a voice spoke from the chair nearest them, “I
can’t believe you’re going to do this, Harry.”

A lamp flickered on. It was Hermione Granger,
wearing a pink bathrobe and a frown.

“You!” said Ron furiously. “Go back to bed!”



Page | 173 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“I almost told your brother,” Hermione snapped,

“Percy — he’s a prefect, he’d put a stop to this.”

Harry couldn’t believe anyone could be so interfering.

“Come on,” he said to Ron. He pushed open the
portrait of the Fat Lady and climbed through the hole.

Hermione wasn’t going to give up that easily. She
followed Ron through the portrait hole, hissing at
them like an angry goose.

“Don’t you care about Gryffindor, do you only care
about yourselves, / don’t want Slytherin to win the
House Cup, and you’ll lose all the points I got from
Professor McGonagall for knowing about Switching
Spells.”

“Go away.”

“All right, but I warned you, you just remember what
I said when you’re on the train home tomorrow,
you’re so — ”

But what they were, they didn’t find out. Hermione
had turned to the portrait of the Fat Lady to get back
inside and found herself facing an empty painting.

The Fat Lady had gone on a nighttime visit and
Hermione was locked out of Gryffindor Tower.

“Now what am I going to do?” she asked shrilly.

“That’s your problem,” said Ron. “We’ve got to go,
we’re going to be late.”

They hadn’t even reached the end of the corridor
when Hermione caught up with them.

“I’m coming with you,” she said.

Page | 174 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“You are not.”



“D’you think I’m going to stand out here and wait for
Filch to catch me? If he finds all three of us I’ll tell
him the truth, that I was trying to stop you, and you
can back me up.”

“You’ve got some nerve — ” said Ron loudly.

“Shut up, both of you!” said Harry sharply. “I heard
something.”

It was a sort of snuffling.

“Mrs. Norris?” breathed Ron, squinting through the
dark.

It wasn’t Mrs. Norris. It was Neville. He was curled up
on the floor, fast asleep, but jerked suddenly awake
as they crept nearer.

“Thank goodness you found me! I’ve been out here for
hours, I couldn’t remember the new password to get
in to bed.”

“Keep your voice down, Neville. The password’s ‘Pig
snout’ but it won’t help you now, the Fat Lady’s gone
off somewhere.”

“How’s your arm?” said Harry.

“Fine,” said Neville, showing them. “Madam Pomfrey
mended it in about a minute.”

“Good — well, look, Neville, we’ve got to be
somewhere, we’ll see you later — ”



Page | 175 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Don’t leave me!” said Neville, scrambling to his feet,

“I don’t want to stay here alone, the Bloody Baron’s
been past twice already.”

Ron looked at his watch and then glared furiously at
Hermione and Neville.

“If either of you get us caught, I’ll never rest until I’ve
learned that Curse of the Bogies Quirrell told us
about, and used it on you.”

Hermione opened her mouth, perhaps to tell Ron
exactly how to use the Curse of the Bogies, but Harry
hissed at her to be quiet and beckoned them all
forward.

They flitted along corridors striped with bars of
moonlight from the high windows. At every turn Harry
expected to run into Filch or Mrs. Norris, but they
were lucky. They sped up a staircase to the third floor
and tiptoed toward the trophy room.

Malfoy and Crabbe weren’t there yet. The crystal
trophy cases glimmered where the moonlight caught
them. Cups, shields, plates, and statues winked silver
and gold in the darkness. They edged along the walls,
keeping their eyes on the doors at either end of the
room. Harry took out his wand in case Malfoy leapt in
and started at once. The minutes crept by.

“He’s late, maybe he’s chickened out,” Ron whispered.

Then a noise in the next room made them jump.

Harry had only just raised his wand when they heard
someone speak — and it wasn’t Malfoy.

“Sniff around, my sweet, they might be lurking in a
corner.”



Page | 176 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




It was Filch speaking to Mrs. Norris. Horror-struck,
Harry waved madly at the other three to follow him as
quickly as possible; they scurried silently toward the
door, away from Filch’s voice. Neville’s robes had
barely whipped round the corner when they heard
Filch enter the trophy room.

“They’re in here somewhere,” they heard him mutter,
“probably hiding.”

“This way!” Harry mouthed to the others and,
petrified, they began to creep down a long gallery full
of suits of armor. They could hear Filch getting
nearer. Neville suddenly let out a frightened squeak
and broke into a run — he tripped, grabbed Ron
around the waist, and the pair of them toppled right
into a suit of armor.

The clanging and crashing were enough to wake the
whole castle.

“RUN!” Harry yelled, and the four of them sprinted
down the gallery, not looking back to see whether
Filch was following — they swung around the
doorpost and galloped down one corridor then
another, Harry in the lead, without any idea where
they were or where they were going — they ripped
through a tapestry and found themselves in a hidden
passageway, hurtled along it and came out near their
Charms classroom, which they knew was miles from
the trophy room.

“I think we’ve lost him,” Harry panted, leaning against
the cold wall and wiping his forehead. Neville was
bent double, wheezing and spluttering.

“I — told — you,” Hermione gasped, clutching at the
stitch in her chest, “I — told — you.”



Page | 177 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“We’ve got to get back to Gryffindor Tower,” said Ron,
“quickly as possible.”

“Malfoy tricked you,” Hermione said to Harry. “You
realize that, don’t you? He was never going to meet
you — Filch knew someone was going to be in the
trophy room, Malfoy must have tipped him off.”

Harry thought she was probably right, but he wasn’t
going to tell her that.

“Let’s go.”

It wasn’t going to be that simple. They hadn’t gone
more than a dozen paces when a doorknob rattled
and something came shooting out of a classroom in
front of them.

It was Peeves. He caught sight of them and gave a
squeal of delight.

“Shut up, Peeves — please — you’ll get us thrown
out.”

Peeves cackled.

“Wandering around at midnight, Ickle Firsties? Tut,
tut, tut. Naughty, naughty, you’ll get caughty.”

“Not if you don’t give us away, Peeves, please.”

“Should tell Filch, I should,” said Peeves in a sanity
voice, but his eyes glittered wickedly. “It’s for your
own good, you know.”

“Get out of the way,” snapped Ron, taking a swipe at
Peeves — this was a big mistake.



Page | 178 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“STUDENTS OUT OF BED!” Peeves bellowed,
“STUDENTS OUT OF BED DOWN THE CHARMS
CORRIDOR!”

Ducking under Peeves, they ran for their lives, right
to the end of the corridor where they slammed into a
door — and it was locked.

“This is it!” Ron moaned, as they pushed helplessly at
the door, “We’re done for! This is the end!”

They could hear footsteps, Filch running as fast as he
could toward Peeves ’s shouts.

“Oh, move over,” Hermione snarled. She grabbed
Harry’s wand, tapped the lock, and whispered,
“Alohomora\”

The lock clicked and the door swung open — they
piled through it, shut it quickly, and pressed their
ears against it, listening.

“Which way did they go, Peeves?” Filch was saying.
“Quick, tell me.”

“Say ‘please.’ ”

“Don’t mess with me, Peeves, now where did they go?”

“Shan’t say nothing if you don’t say please,” said
Peeves in his annoying singsong voice.

“All right — please.”

“NOTHING! Ha haaa! Told you I wouldn’t say nothing
if you didn’t say please! Ha ha! Haaaaaa!” And they
heard the sound of Peeves whooshing away and Filch
cursing in rage.



Page | 179 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“He thinks this door is locked,” Harry whispered. “I
think well be okay — get off Neville!” For Neville had
been tugging on the sleeve of Harry’s bathrobe for the
last minute. “What?”

Harry turned around — and saw, quite clearly, what.
For a moment, he was sure he’d walked into a
nightmare — this was too much, on top of everything
that had happened so far.

They weren’t in a room, as he had supposed. They
were in a corridor. The forbidden corridor on the third
floor. And now they knew why it was forbidden.

They were looking straight into the eyes of a
monstrous dog, a dog that filled the whole space
between ceiling and floor. It had three heads. Three
pairs of rolling, mad eyes; three noses, twitching and
quivering in their direction; three drooling mouths,
saliva hanging in slippery ropes from yellowish fangs.

It was standing quite still, all six eyes staring at them,
and Harry knew that the only reason they weren’t
already dead was that their sudden appearance had
taken it by surprise, but it was quickly getting over
that, there was no mistaking what those thunderous
growls meant.

Harry groped for the doorknob — between Filch and
death, he’d take Filch.

They fell backward — Harry slammed the door shut,
and they ran, they almost flew, back down the
corridor. Filch must have hurried off to look for them
somewhere else, because they didn’t see him
anywhere, but they hardly cared — all they wanted to
do was put as much space as possible between them
and that monster. They didn’t stop running until they



Page | 180 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




reached the portrait of the Fat Lady on the seventh
floor.

“Where on earth have you all been?” she asked,
looking at their bathrobes hanging off their shoulders
and their flushed, sweaty faces.

“Never mind that — pig snout, pig snout,” panted
Harry, and the portrait swung forward. They
scrambled into the common room and collapsed,
trembling, into armchairs.

It was a while before any of them said anything.
Neville, indeed, looked as if he’d never speak again.

“What do they think they’re doing, keeping a thing
like that locked up in a school?” said Ron finally. “If
any dog needs exercise, that one does.”

Hermione had got both her breath and her bad
temper back again.

“You don’t use your eyes, any of you, do you?” she
snapped. “Didn’t you see what it was standing on?”

“The floor?” Harry suggested. “I wasn’t looking at its
feet, I was too busy with its heads.”

“No, not the floor. It was standing on a trapdoor. It’s
obviously guarding something.”

She stood up, glaring at them.

“I hope you’re pleased with yourselves. We could all
have been killed — or worse, expelled. Now, if you
don’t mind, I’m going to bed.”

Ron stared after her, his mouth open.



Page | 181 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“No, we don’t mind,” he said. “You’d think we dragged
her along, wouldn’t you?”

But Hermione had given Harry something else to
think about as he climbed back into bed. The dog was
guarding something. . . . What had Hagrid said?
Gringotts was the safest place in the world for
something you wanted to hide — except perhaps
Hogwarts.

It looked as though Harry had found out where the
grubby little package from vault seven hundred and
thirteen was.



Page | 182 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




10




HALLOWEEN

Malfoy couldn’t believe his eyes when he saw that
Harry and Ron were still at Hogwarts the next day,
looking tired but perfectly cheerful. Indeed, by the
next morning Harry and Ron thought that meeting
the three-headed dog had been an excellent
adventure, and they were quite keen to have another
one. In the meantime, Harry filled Ron in about the
package that seemed to have been moved from
Gringotts to Hogwarts, and they spent a lot of time
wondering what could possibly need such heavy
protection.

“It’s either really valuable or really dangerous,” said
Ron.

“Or both,” said Harry.

But as all they knew for sure about the mysterious
object was that it was about two inches long, they
didn’t have much chance of guessing what it was
without further clues.

Page | 183 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone -J.K. Rowling



Neither Neville nor Hermione showed the slightest
interest in what lay underneath the dog and the
trapdoor. All Neville cared about was never going near
the dog again.

Hermione was now refusing to speak to Harry and
Ron, but she was such a bossy know-it-all that they
saw this as an added bonus. All they really wanted
now was a way of getting back at Malfoy, and to their
great delight, just such a thing arrived in the mail
about a week later.

As the owls flooded into the Great Hall as usual,
everyone’s attention was caught at once by a long,
thin package carried by six large screech owls. Harry
was just as interested as everyone else to see what
was in this large parcel, and was amazed when the
owls soared down and dropped it right in front of him,
knocking his bacon to the floor. They had hardly
fluttered out of the way when another owl dropped a
letter on top of the parcel.

Harry ripped open the letter first, which was lucky,
because it said:



DO NOT OPEN THE PARCEL AT THE TABLE.

It contains your new Nimbus Two Thousand, but I
don’t want everybody knowing you’ve got a
broomstick or they’ll all want one. Oliver Wood will
meet you tonight on the Quidditch field at seven
o’clock for your first training session.

Professor M. McGonagall

Harry had difficulty hiding his glee as he handed the
note to Ron to read.

Page | 184 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“A Nimbus Two Thousand!” Ron moaned enviously.
“I’ve never even touched one.”

They left the hall quickly, wanting to unwrap the
broomstick in private before their first class, but
halfway across the entrance hall they found the way
upstairs barred by Crabbe and Goyle. Malfoy seized
the package from Harry and felt it.

“That’s a broomstick,” he said, throwing it back to
Harry with a mixture of jealousy and spite on his face.
“You’ll be in for it this time, Potter, first years aren’t
allowed them.”

Ron couldn’t resist it.

“It’s not any old broomstick,” he said, “it’s a Nimbus
Two Thousand. What did you say you’ve got at home,
Malfoy, a Comet Two Sixty?” Ron grinned at Harry.
“Comets look flashy, but they’re not in the same
league as the Nimbus.”

“What would you know about it, Weasley, you
couldn’t afford half the handle,” Malfoy snapped back.
“I suppose you and your brothers have to save up
twig by twig.”

Before Ron could answer, Professor Flitwick appeared
at Malfoy’s elbow.

“Not arguing, I hope, boys?” he squeaked.

“Potters been sent a broomstick, Professor,” said
Malfoy quickly.

“Yes, yes, that’s right,” said Professor Flitwick,
beaming at Harry. “Professor McGonagall told me all
about the special circumstances, Potter. And what
model is it?”

Page | 185 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“A Nimbus Two Thousand, sir,” said Harry, fighting
not to laugh at the look of horror on Malfoy’s face.
“And it’s really thanks to Malfoy here that I’ve got it,”
he added.

Harry and Ron headed upstairs, smothering their
laughter at Malfoy’s obvious rage and confusion.

“Well, it’s true,” Harry chortled as they reached the
top of the marble staircase, “If he hadn’t stolen
Neville’s Remembrall I wouldn’t be on the team. ...”

“So I suppose you think that’s a reward for breaking
rules?” came an angry voice from just behind them.
Hermione was stomping up the stairs, looking
disapprovingly at the package in Harry’s hand.

“I thought you weren’t speaking to us?” said Harry.

“Yes, don’t stop now,” said Ron, “it’s doing us so
much good.”

Hermione marched away with her nose in the air.

Harry had a lot of trouble keeping his mind on his
lessons that day. It kept wandering up to the
dormitory where his new broomstick was lying under
his bed, or straying off to the Quidditch field where
he’d be learning to play that night. He bolted his
dinner that evening without noticing what he was
eating, and then rushed upstairs with Ron to unwrap
the Nimbus Two Thousand at last.

“Wow,” Ron sighed, as the broomstick rolled onto
Harry’s bedspread.

Even Harry, who knew nothing about the different
brooms, thought it looked wonderful. Sleek and
shiny, with a mahogany handle, it had a long tail of

Page | 186 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




neat, straight twigs and Nimbus Two Thousand
written in gold near the top.

As seven o’clock drew nearer, Harry left the castle and
set off in the dusk toward the Quidditch field. He’d
never been inside the stadium before. Hundreds of
seats were raised in stands around the field so that
the spectators were high enough to see what was
going on. At either end of the field were three golden
poles with hoops on the end. They reminded Harry of
the little plastic sticks Muggle children blew bubbles
through, except that they were fifty feet high.

Too eager to fly again to wait for Wood, Harry
mounted his broomstick and kicked off from the
ground. What a feeling — he swooped in and out of
the goal posts and then sped up and down the field.
The Nimbus Two Thousand turned wherever he
wanted at his lightest touch.

“Hey, Potter, come down!”

Oliver Wood had arrived. He was carrying a large
wooden crate under his arm. Harry landed next to
him.

“Very nice,” said Wood, his eyes glinting. “I see what
McGonagall meant ... you really are a natural. I’m
just going to teach you the rules this evening, then
you’ll be joining team practice three times a week.”

He opened the crate. Inside were four different-sized
balls.

“Right,” said Wood. “Now, Quidditch is easy enough to
understand, even if it’s not too easy to play. There are
seven players on each side. Three of them are called
Chasers.”



Page | 187 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Three Chasers,” Harry repeated, as Wood took out a
bright red ball about the size of a soccer ball.

“This ball’s called the Quaffle,” said Wood. “The
Chasers throw the Quaffle to each other and try and
get it through one of the hoops to score a goal. Ten
points every time the Quaffle goes through one of the
hoops. Follow me?”

“The Chasers throw the Quaffle and put it through
the hoops to score,” Harry recited. “So — that’s sort of
like basketball on broomsticks with six hoops, isn’t
it?”



“What’s basketball?” said Wood curiously.

“Never mind,” said Harry quickly.

“Now, there’s another player on each side who’s called
the Keeper — I’m Keeper for Gryffindor. I have to fly
around our hoops and stop the other team from
scoring.”

“Three Chasers, one Keeper,” said Harry, who was
determined to remember it all. “And they play with
the Quaffle. Okay, got that. So what are they for?” He
pointed at the three balls left inside the box.

“I’ll show you now,” said Wood. “Take this.”

He handed Harry a small club, a bit like a short
baseball bat.

“I’m going to show you what the Bludgers do,” Wood
said. “These two are the Bludgers.”

He showed Harry two identical balls, jet black and
slightly smaller than the red Quaffle. Harry noticed



Page | 188 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




that they seemed to be straining to escape the straps
holding them inside the box.

“Stand back,” Wood warned Harry. He bent down and
freed one of the Bludgers.

At once, the black ball rose high in the air and then
pelted straight at Harry’s face. Harry swung at it with
the bat to stop it from breaking his nose, and sent it
zigzagging away into the air — it zoomed around their
heads and then shot at Wood, who dived on top of it
and managed to pin it to the ground.

“See?” Wood panted, forcing the struggling Bludger
back into the crate and strapping it down safely. “The
Bludgers rocket around, trying to knock players off
their brooms. That’s why you have two Beaters on
each team — the Weasley twins are ours — it’s their
job to protect their side from the Bludgers and try and
knock them toward the other team. So — think you’ve
got all that?”

“Three Chasers try and score with the Quaffle; the
Keeper guards the goal posts; the Beaters keep the
Bludgers away from their team,” Harry reeled off.

“Very good,” said Wood.

“Er — have the Bludgers ever killed anyone?” Harry
asked, hoping he sounded offhand.

“Never at Hogwarts. We’ve had a couple of broken
jaws but nothing worse than that. Now, the last
member of the team is the Seeker. That’s you. And
you don’t have to worry about the Quaffle or the
Bludgers — ”

“ — unless they crack my head open.”



Page | 189 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Don’t worry, the Weasleys are more than a match for
the Bludgers — I mean, they’re like a pair of human
Bludgers themselves.”

Wood reached into the crate and took out the fourth
and last ball. Compared with the Quaffle and the
Bludgers, it was tiny, about the size of a large walnut.
It was bright gold and had little fluttering silver
wings.

“This,” said Wood, “is the Golden Snitch, and it’s the
most important ball of the lot. It’s very hard to catch
because it’s so fast and difficult to see. It’s the
Seeker’s job to catch it. You’ve got to weave in and out
of the Chasers, Beaters, Bludgers, and Quaffle to get
it before the other team’s Seeker, because whichever
Seeker catches the Snitch wins his team an extra
hundred and fifty points, so they nearly always win.
That’s why Seekers get fouled so much. A game of
Quidditch only ends when the Snitch is caught, so it
can go on for ages — I think the record is three
months, they had to keep bringing on substitutes so
the players could get some sleep.

“Well, that’s it — any questions?”

Harry shook his head. He understood what he had to
do all right, it was doing it that was going to be the
problem.

“We won’t practice with the Snitch yet,” said Wood,
carefully shutting it back inside the crate, “it’s too
dark, we might lose it. Let’s try you out with a few of
these.”

He pulled a bag of ordinary golf balls out of his pocket
and a few minutes later, he and Harry were up in the
air, Wood throwing the golf balls as hard as he could
in every direction for Harry to catch.

Page | 190 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




Harry didn’t miss a single one, and Wood was
delighted. After half an hour, night had really fallen
and they couldn’t carry on.

“That Quidditch Cup’ll have our name on it this year,”
said Wood happily as they trudged back up to the
castle. “I wouldn’t be surprised if you turn out better
than Charlie Weasley, and he could have played for
England if he hadn’t gone off chasing dragons.”

Perhaps it was because he was now so busy, what
with Quidditch practice three evenings a week on top
of all his homework, but Harry could hardly believe it
when he realized that he’d already been at Hogwarts
two months. The castle felt more like home than
Privet Drive ever had. His lessons, too, were becoming
more and more interesting now that they had
mastered the basics.

On Halloween morning they woke to the delicious
smell of baking pumpkin wafting through the
corridors. Even better, Professor Flitwick announced
in Charms that he thought they were ready to start
making objects fly, something they had all been dying
to try since they’d seen him make Neville’s toad zoom
around the classroom. Professor Flitwick put the
class into pairs to practice. Harry’s partner was
Seamus Finnigan (which was a relief, because Neville
had been trying to catch his eye). Ron, however, was
to be working with Hermione Granger. It was hard to
tell whether Ron or Hermione was angrier about this.
She hadn’t spoken to either of them since the day
Harry’s broomstick had arrived.

“Now, don’t forget that nice wrist movement we’ve
been practicing!” squeaked Professor Flitwick,
perched on top of his pile of books as usual. “Swish
and flick, remember, swish and flick. And saying the
magic words properly is very important, too — never
Page | 191 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




forget Wizard Baruffio, who said ‘s’ instead of ‘f and
found himself on the floor with a buffalo on his
chest.”

It was very difficult. Harry and Seamus swished and
flicked, but the feather they were supposed to be
sending skyward just lay on the desktop. Seamus got
so impatient that he prodded it with his wand and set
fire to it — Harry had to put it out with his hat.

Ron, at the next table, wasn’t having much more
luck.

“Wingardium Leviosal” he shouted, waving his long
arms like a windmill.

“You’re saying it wrong,” Harry heard Hermione snap.
“It’s Wing-gar-dium Levi-o-sa, make the ‘gar’ nice and
long.”

“You do it, then, if you’re so clever,” Ron snarled.

Hermione rolled up the sleeves of her gown, flicked
her wand, and said, “Wingardium LeviosaV’

Their feather rose off the desk and hovered about four
feet above their heads.

“Oh, well done!” cried Professor Flitwick, clapping.
“Everyone see here, Miss Granger’s done it!”

Ron was in a very bad mood by the end of the class.

“It’s no wonder no one can stand her,” he said to
Harry as they pushed their way into the crowded
corridor, “she’s a nightmare, honestly.”



Page | 192 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




Someone knocked into Harry as they hurried past
him. It was Hermione. Harry caught a glimpse of her
face — and was startled to see that she was in tears.

“I think she heard you.”

“So?” said Ron, but he looked a bit uncomfortable.
“She must’ve noticed she’s got no friends.”

Hermione didn’t turn up for the next class and wasn’t
seen all afternoon. On their way down to the Great
Hall for the Halloween feast, Harry and Ron overheard
Parvati Patil telling her friend Lavender that Hermione
was crying in the girls’ bathroom and wanted to be
left alone. Ron looked still more awkward at this, but
a moment later they had entered the Great Hall,
where the Halloween decorations put Hermione out of
their minds.

A thousand live bats fluttered from the walls and
ceiling while a thousand more swooped over the
tables in low black clouds, making the candles in the
pumpkins stutter. The feast appeared suddenly on
the golden plates, as it had at the start-of-term
banquet.

Harry was just helping himself to a baked potato
when Professor Quirrell came sprinting into the hall,
his turban askew and terror on his face. Everyone
stared as he reached Professor Dumbledore’s chair,
slumped against the table, and gasped, “Troll — in
the dungeons — thought you ought to know.”

He then sank to the floor in a dead faint.

There was an uproar. It took several purple
firecrackers exploding from the end of Professor
Dumbledore’s wand to bring silence.



Page | 193 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Prefects,” he rumbled, “lead your Houses back to the
dormitories immediately!”

Percy was in his element.

“Follow me! Stick together, first years! No need to fear
the troll if you follow my orders! Stay close behind
me, now. Make way, first years coming through!
Excuse me, I’m a prefect!”

“How could a troll get in?” Harry asked as they
climbed the stairs.

“Don’t ask me, they’re supposed to be really stupid,”
said Ron. “Maybe Peeves let it in for a Halloween
joke.”

They passed different groups of people hurrying in
different directions. As they jostled their way through
a crowd of confused Hufflepuffs, Harry suddenly
grabbed Ron’s arm.

“I’ve just thought — Hermione.”

“What about her?”

“She doesn’t know about the troll.”

Ron bit his lip.

“Oh, all right,” he snapped. “But Percy’d better not
see us.”

Ducking down, they joined the Hufflepuffs going the
other way, slipped down a deserted side corridor, and
hurried off toward the girls’ bathroom. They had just
turned the corner when they heard quick footsteps
behind them.



Page | 194 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Percy!” hissed Ron, pulling Harry behind a large
stone griffin.

Peering around it, however, they saw not Percy but
Snape. He crossed the corridor and disappeared from
view.

“What’s he doing?” Harry whispered. “Why isn’t he
down in the dungeons with the rest of the teachers?”

“Search me.”

Quietly as possible, they crept along the next corridor
after Snape ’s fading footsteps.

“He’s heading for the third floor,” Harry said, but Ron
held up his hand.

“Can you smell something?”

Harry sniffed and a foul stench reached his nostrils, a
mixture of old socks and the kind of public toilet no
one seems to clean.

And then they heard it — a low grunting, and the
shuffling footfalls of gigantic feet. Ron pointed — at
the end of a passage to the left, something huge was
moving toward them. They shrank into the shadows
and watched as it emerged into a patch of moonlight.

It was a horrible sight. Twelve feet tall, its skin was a
dull, granite gray, its great lumpy body like a boulder
with its small bald head perched on top like a
coconut. It had short legs thick as tree trunks with
flat, horny feet. The smell coming from it was
incredible. It was holding a huge wooden club, which
dragged along the floor because its arms were so long.



Page | 195 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




The troll stopped next to a doorway and peered inside.
It waggled its long ears, making up its tiny mind, then
slouched slowly into the room.

“The key’s in the lock,” Harry muttered. “We could
lock it in.”

“Good idea,” said Ron nervously.

They edged toward the open door, mouths dry,
praying the troll wasn’t about to come out of it. With
one great leap, Harry managed to grab the key, slam
the door, and lock it.

“Yes!”

Flushed with their victory, they started to run back
up the passage, but as they reached the corner they
heard something that made their hearts stop — a
high, petrified scream — and it was coming from the
chamber they’d just chained up.

“Oh, no,” said Ron, pale as the Bloody Baron.

“It’s the girls’ bathroom!” Harry gasped.

“ Hermionel” they said together.

It was the last thing they wanted to do, but what
choice did they have? Wheeling around, they sprinted
back to the door and turned the key, fumbling in their
panic. Harry pulled the door open and they ran
inside.

Hermione Granger was shrinking against the wall
opposite, looking as if she was about to faint. The troll
was advancing on her, knocking the sinks off the
walls as it went.



Page | 196 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Confuse it!” Harry said desperately to Ron, and,
seizing a tap, he threw it as hard as he could against
the wall.

The troll stopped a few feet from Hermione. It
lumbered around, blinking stupidly, to see what had
made the noise. Its mean little eyes saw Harry. It
hesitated, then made for him instead, lifting its club
as it went.

“Oy, pea-brain!” yelled Ron from the other side of the
chamber, and he threw a metal pipe at it. The troll
didn’t even seem to notice the pipe hitting its
shoulder, but it heard the yell and paused again,
turning its ugly snout toward Ron instead, giving
Harry time to run around it.

“Come on, run, run\” Harry yelled at Hermione, trying
to pull her toward the door, but she couldn’t move,
she was still flat against the wall, her mouth open
with terror.

The shouting and the echoes seemed to be driving the
troll berserk. It roared again and started toward Ron,
who was nearest and had no way to escape.

Harry then did something that was both very brave
and very stupid: He took a great running jump and
managed to fasten his arms around the troll’s neck
from behind. The troll couldn’t feel Harry hanging
there, but even a troll will notice if you stick a long bit
of wood up its nose, and Harry’s wand had still been
in his hand when he’d jumped — it had gone straight
up one of the troll’s nostrils.

Howling with pain, the troll twisted and flailed its
club, with Harry clinging on for dear life; any second,
the troll was going to rip him off or catch him a
terrible blow with the club.

Page | 197 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




Hermione had sunk to the floor in fright; Ron pulled
out his own wand — not knowing what he was going
to do he heard himself cry the first spell that came
into his head: “Wingardium Leviosal”

The club flew suddenly out of the troll’s hand, rose
high, high up into the air, turned slowly over — and
dropped, with a sickening crack, onto its owner’s
head. The troll swayed on the spot and then fell flat
on its face, with a thud that made the whole room
tremble.

Harry got to his feet. He was shaking and out of
breath. Ron was standing there with his wand still
raised, staring at what he had done.

It was Hermione who spoke first.

“Is it — dead?”

“I don’t think so,” said Harry, “I think it’s just been
knocked out.”

He bent down and pulled his wand out of the troll’s
nose. It was covered in what looked like lumpy gray
glue.

“Urgh — troll boogers.”

He wiped it on the troll’s trousers.

A sudden slamming and loud footsteps made the
three of them look up. They hadn’t realized what a
racket they had been making, but of course, someone
downstairs must have heard the crashes and the
troll’s roars. A moment later, Professor McGonagall
had come bursting into the room, closely followed by
Snape, with Quirrell bringing up the rear. Quirrell



Page | 198 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




took one look at the troll, let out a faint whimper, and
sat quickly down on a toilet, clutching his heart.

Snape bent over the troll. Professor McGonagall was
looking at Ron and Harry. Harry had never seen her
look so angry. Her lips were white. Hopes of winning
fifty points for Gryffindor faded quickly from Harry’s
mind.

“What on earth were you thinking of?” said Professor
McGonagall, with cold fury in her voice. Harry looked
at Ron, who was still standing with his wand in the
air. “You’re lucky you weren’t killed. Why aren’t you
in your dormitory?”

Snape gave Harry a swift, piercing look. Harry looked
at the floor. He wished Ron would put his wand down.

Then a small voice came out of the shadows.

“Please, Professor McGonagall — they were looking for
me.”

“Miss Granger!”

Hermione had managed to get to her feet at last.

“I went looking for the troll because I — I thought I
could deal with it on my own — you know, because
I’ve read all about them.”

Ron dropped his wand. Hermione Granger, telling a
downright lie to a teacher?

“If they hadn’t found me, I’d be dead now. Harry
stuck his wand up its nose and Ron knocked it out
with its own club. They didn’t have time to come and
fetch anyone. It was about to finish me off when they
arrived.”

Page | 199 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




Harry and Ron tried to look as though this story
wasn’t new to them.

“Well — in that case ...” said Professor McGonagall,
staring at the three of them, “Miss Granger, you
foolish girl, how could you think of tackling a
mountain troll on your own?”

Hermione hung her head. Harry was speechless.
Hermione was the last person to do anything against
the rules, and here she was, pretending she had, to
get them out of trouble. It was as if Snape had started
handing out sweets.

“Miss Granger, five points will be taken from
Gryffindor for this,” said Professor McGonagall. “I’m
very disappointed in you. If you’re not hurt at all,
you’d better get off to Gryffindor Tower. Students are
finishing the feast in their Houses.”

Hermione left.

Professor McGonagall turned to Harry and Ron.

“Well, I still say you were lucky, but not many first
years could have taken on a full-grown mountain
troll. You each win Gryffindor five points. Professor
Dumbledore will be informed of this. You may go.”

They hurried out of the chamber and didn’t speak at
all until they had climbed two floors up. It was a relief
to be away from the smell of the troll, quite apart from
anything else.

“We should have gotten more than ten points,” Ron
grumbled.

“Five, you mean, once she’s taken off Hermione ’s.”



Page | 200 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Good of her to get us out of trouble like that,” Ron
admitted. “Mind you, we did save her.”

“She might not have needed saving if we hadn’t
locked the thing in with her,” Harry reminded him.

They had reached the portrait of the Fat Lady.

“Pig snout,” they said and entered.

The common room was packed and noisy. Everyone
was eating the food that had been sent up. Hermione,
however, stood alone by the door, waiting for them.
There was a very embarrassed pause. Then, none of
them looking at each other, they all said “Thanks,”
and hurried off to get plates.

But from that moment on, Hermione Granger became
their friend. There are some things you can’t share
without ending up liking each other, and knocking
out a twelve-foot mountain troll is one of them.



Page | 201 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling





QUIDDITCH

As they entered November, the weather turned very
cold. The mountains around the school became icy
gray and the lake like chilled steel. Every morning the
ground was covered in frost. Hagrid could be seen
from the upstairs windows defrosting broomsticks on
the Quidditch field, bundled up in a long moleskin
overcoat, rabbit fur gloves, and enormous beaverskin
boots.

The Quidditch season had begun. On Saturday, Harry
would be playing in his first match after weeks of
training: Gryffindor versus Slytherin. If Gryffindor
won, they would move up into second place in the
House Championship.

Hardly anyone had seen Harry play because Wood
had decided that, as their secret weapon, Harry
should be kept, well, secret. But the news that he was
playing Seeker had leaked out somehow, and Harry
didn’t know which was worse — people telling him
he’d be brilliant or people telling him they’d be
running around underneath him holding a mattress.
Page | 202 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling



It was really lucky that Harry now had Hermione as a
friend. He didn’t know how he’d have gotten through
all his homework without her, what with all the last-
minute Quidditch practice Wood was making them
do. She had also lent him Quidditch Through the Ages,
which turned out to be a very interesting read.

Harry learned that there were seven hundred ways of
committing a Quidditch foul and that all of them had
happened during a World Cup match in 1473; that
Seekers were usually the smallest and fastest players,
and that most serious Quidditch accidents seemed to
happen to them; that although people rarely died
playing Quidditch, referees had been known to vanish
and turn up months later in the Sahara Desert.

Hermione had become a bit more relaxed about
breaking rules since Harry and Ron had saved her
from the mountain troll, and she was much nicer for
it. The day before Harry’s first Quidditch match the
three of them were out in the freezing courtyard
during break, and she had conjured them up a bright
blue fire that could be carried around in a jam jar.
They were standing with their backs to it, getting
warm, when Snape crossed the yard. Harry noticed at
once that Snape was limping. Harry, Ron, and
Hermione moved closer together to block the fire from
view; they were sure it wouldn’t be allowed.
Unfortunately, something about their guilty faces
caught Snape’s eye. He limped over. He hadn’t seen
the fire, but he seemed to be looking for a reason to
tell them off anyway.

“What’s that you’ve got there, Potter?”

It was Quidditch Through the Ages. Harry showed him.



Page | 203 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Library books are not to be taken outside the
school,” said Snape. “Give it to me. Five points from
Gryffindor.”

“He’s just made that rule up,” Harry muttered angrily
as Snape limped away. “Wonder what’s wrong with
his leg?”

“Dunno, but I hope it’s really hurting him,” said Ron
bitterly.

The Gryffindor common room was very noisy that
evening. Harry, Ron, and Hermione sat together next
to a window. Hermione was checking Harry and Ron’s
Charms homework for them. She would never let
them copy (“How will you learn?”), but by asking her
to read it through, they got the right answers anyway.

Harry felt restless. He wanted Quidditch Through the
Ages back, to take his mind off his nerves about
tomorrow. Why should he be afraid of Snape? Getting
up, he told Ron and Hermione he was going to ask
Snape if he could have it.

“Better you than me,” they said together, but Harry
had an idea that Snape wouldn’t refuse if there were
other teachers listening.

He made his way down to the staffroom and knocked.
There was no answer. He knocked again. Nothing.

Perhaps Snape had left the book in there? It was
worth a try. He pushed the door ajar and peered
inside — and a horrible scene met his eyes.

Snape and Filch were inside, alone. Snape was
holding his robes above his knees. One of his legs was
bloody and mangled. Filch was handing Snape
bandages.

Page | 204 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Blasted thing,” Snape was saying. “How are you
supposed to keep your eyes on all three heads at
once?”

Harry tried to shut the door quietly, but —

“POTTER!”

Snape ’s face was twisted with fury as he dropped his
robes quickly to hide his leg. Harry gulped.

“I just wondered if I could have my book back.”

“GET OUT! OUT!”

Harry left, before Snape could take any more points
from Gryffindor. He sprinted back upstairs.

“Did you get it?” Ron asked as Harry joined them.
“What’s the matter?”

In a low whisper, Harry told them what he’d seen.

“You know what this means?” he finished
breathlessly. “He tried to get past that three-headed
dog at Halloween! That’s where he was going when we
saw him — he’s after whatever it’s guarding! And I’d
bet my broomstick he let that troll in, to make a
diversion!”

Hermione’s eyes were wide.

“No — he wouldn’t,” she said. “I know he’s not very
nice, but he wouldn’t try and steal something
Dumbledore was keeping safe.”

“Honestly, Hermione, you think all teachers are saints
or something,” snapped Ron. “I’m with Harry. I



Page | 205 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




wouldn’t put anything past Snape. But what’s he
after? What’s that dog guarding?”

Harry went to bed with his head buzzing with the
same question. Neville was snoring loudly, but Harry
couldn’t sleep. He tried to empty his mind — he
needed to sleep, he had to, he had his first Quidditch
match in a few hours — but the expression on
Snape’s face when Harry had seen his leg wasn’t easy
to forget.

The next morning dawned very bright and cold. The
Great Hall was full of the delicious smell of fried
sausages and the cheerful chatter of everyone looking
forward to a good Quidditch match.

“You’ve got to eat some breakfast.”

“I don’t want anything.”

“Just a bit of toast,” wheedled Hermione.

“I’m not hungry.”

Harry felt terrible. In an hour’s time he’d be walking
onto the field.

“Harry, you need your strength,” said Seamus
Finnigan. “Seekers are always the ones who get
clobbered by the other team.”

“Thanks, Seamus,” said Harry, watching Seamus pile
ketchup on his sausages.

By eleven o’clock the whole school seemed to be out
in the stands around the Quidditch pitch. Many
students had binoculars. The seats might be raised
high in the air, but it was still difficult to see what
was going on sometimes.

Page | 206 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




Ron and Hermione joined Neville, Seamus, and Dean
the West Ham fan up in the top row. As a surprise for
Harry, they had painted a large banner on one of the
sheets Scabbers had ruined. It said Potter for
President, and Dean, who was good at drawing, had
done a large Gryffindor lion underneath. Then
Hermione had performed a tricky little charm so that
the paint flashed different colors.

Meanwhile, in the locker room, Harry and the rest of
the team were changing into their scarlet Quidditch
robes (Slytherin would be playing in green) .

Wood cleared his throat for silence.

“Okay, men,” he said.

“And women,” said Chaser Angelina Johnson.

“And women,” Wood agreed. “This is it.”

“The big one,” said Fred Weasley.

“The one we’ve all been waiting for,” said George.

“We know Oliver’s speech by heart,” Fred told Harry,
“we were on the team last year.”

“Shut up, you two,” said Wood. “This is the best team
Gryffindor’s had in years. We’re going to win. I know
it.”

He glared at them all as if to say, “Or else.”

“Right. It’s time. Good luck, all of you.”

Harry followed Fred and George out of the locker
room and, hoping his knees weren’t going to give way,
walked onto the field to loud cheers.

Page | 207 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




Madam Hooch was refereeing. She stood in the
middle of the field waiting for the two teams, her
broom in her hand.

“Now, I want a nice fair game, all of you,” she said,
once they were all gathered around her. Harry noticed
that she seemed to be speaking particularly to the
Slytherin Captain, Marcus Flint, a fifth year. Harry
thought Flint looked as if he had some troll blood in
him. Out of the corner of his eye he saw the fluttering
banner high above, flashing Potter for President over
the crowd. His heart skipped. He felt braver.

“Mount your brooms, please.”

Harry clambered onto his Nimbus Two Thousand.

Madam Hooch gave a loud blast on her silver whistle.

Fifteen brooms rose up, high, high into the air. They
were off.

“And the Quaffle is taken immediately by Angelina
Johnson of Gryffindor — what an excellent Chaser
that girl is, and rather attractive, too — ”

“JORDAN!”

“Sorry, Professor.”

The Weasley twins’ friend, Lee Jordan, was doing the
commentary for the match, closely watched by
Professor McGonagall.

“And she’s really belting along up there, a neat pass
to Alicia Spinnet, a good find of Oliver Wood’s, last
year only a reserve — back to Johnson and — no, the
Slytherins have taken the Quaffle, Slytherin Captain
Marcus Flint gains the Quaffle and off he goes — Flint
Page | 208 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




flying like an eagle up there — he’s going to sc- no,
stopped by an excellent move by Gryffindor Keeper
Wood and the Gryffindors take the Quaffle — that’s
Chaser Katie Bell of Gryffindor there, nice dive
around Flint, off up the field and — OUCH — that
must have hurt, hit in the back of the head by a
Bludger — Quaffle taken by the Slytherins — that’s
Adrian Pucey speeding off toward the goal posts, but
he’s blocked by a second Bludger — sent his way by
Fred or George Weasley, can’t tell which — nice play
by the Gryffindor Beater, anyway, and Johnson back
in possession of the Quaffle, a clear field ahead and
off she goes — she’s really flying — dodges a speeding
Bludger — the goal posts are ahead — come on, now,
Angelina — Keeper Bletchley dives — misses —
GRYFFINDORS SCORE!”

Gryffindor cheers filled the cold air, with howls and
moans from the Slytherins.

“Budge up there, move along.”

“Hagrid!”

Ron and Hermione squeezed together to give Hagrid
enough space to join them.

“Bin watchin’ from me hut,” said Hagrid, patting a
large pair of binoculars around his neck, “But it isn’t
the same as bein’ in the crowd. No sign of the Snitch
yet, eh?”

“Nope,” said Ron. “Harry hasn’t had much to do yet.”

“Kept outta trouble, though, that’s somethin’,” said
Hagrid, raising his binoculars and peering skyward at
the speck that was Harry.



Page | 209 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




Way up above them, Harry was gliding over the game,
squinting about for some sign of the Snitch. This was
part of his and Wood’s game plan.

“Keep out of the way until you catch sight of the
Snitch,” Wood had said. “We don’t want you attacked
before you have to be.”

When Angelina had scored, Harry had done a couple
of loop-the-loops to let off his feelings. Now he was
back to staring around for the Snitch. Once he caught
sight of a flash of gold, but it was just a reflection
from one of the Weasleys’ wristwatches, and once a
Bludger decided to come pelting his way, more like a
cannonball than anything, but Harry dodged it and
Fred Weasley came chasing after it.

“All right there, Harry?” he had time to yell, as he
beat the Bludger furiously toward Marcus Flint.

“Slytherin in possession,” Lee Jordan was saying,
“Chaser Pucey ducks two Bludgers, two Weasleys,
and Chaser Bell, and speeds toward the — wait a
moment — was that the Snitch?”

A murmur ran through the crowd as Adrian Pucey
dropped the Quaffle, too busy looking over his
shoulder at the flash of gold that had passed his left
ear.

Harry saw it. In a great rush of excitement he dived
downward after the streak of gold. Slytherin Seeker
Terence Higgs had seen it, too. Neck and neck they
hurtled toward the Snitch — all the Chasers seemed
to have forgotten what they were supposed to be
doing as they hung in midair to watch.



Page | 210 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




Harry was faster than Higgs — he could see the little
round ball, wings fluttering, darting up ahead — he
put on an extra spurt of speed —

WHAM! A roar of rage echoed from the Gryffindors
below — Marcus Flint had blocked Harry on purpose,
and Harry’s broom spun off course, Harry holding on
for dear life.

“Foul!” screamed the Gryffindors.

Madam Hooch spoke angrily to Flint and then ordered
a free shot at the goal posts for Gryffindor. But in all
the confusion, of course, the Golden Snitch had
disappeared from sight again.

Down in the stands, Dean Thomas was yelling, “Send
him off, ref! Red card!”

“What are you talking about, Dean?” said Ron.

“Red card!” said Dean furiously. “In soccer you get
shown the red card and you’re out of the game!”

“But this isn’t soccer, Dean,” Ron reminded him.

Hagrid, however, was on Dean’s side.

“They oughta change the rules. Flint coulda knocked
Harry outta the air.”

Lee Jordan was finding it difficult not to take sides.

“So — after that obvious and disgusting bit of
cheating — ”

“Jordan!” growled Professor McGonagall.

“I mean, after that open and revolting foul — ”

Page | 211 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Jordan, I’m warning you — ”



“All right, all right. Flint nearly kills the Gryffindor
Seeker, which could happen to anyone, I’m sure, so a
penalty to Gryffindor, taken by Spinnet, who puts it
away, no trouble, and we continue play, Gryffindor
still in possession.”

It was as Harry dodged another Bludger, which went
spinning dangerously past his head, that it happened.
His broom gave a sudden, frightening lurch. For a
split second, he thought he was going to fall. He
gripped the broom tightly with both his hands and
knees. He’d never felt anything like that.

It happened again. It was as though the broom was
trying to buck him off. But Nimbus Two Thousands
did not suddenly decide to buck their riders off. Harry
tried to turn back toward the Gryffindor goal posts —
he had half a mind to ask Wood to call time-out —
and then he realized that his broom was completely
out of his control. He couldn’t turn it. He couldn’t
direct it at all. It was zigzagging through the air, and
every now and then making violent swishing
movements that almost unseated him.

Lee was still commentating.

“Slytherin in possession — Flint with the Quaffle —
passes Spinnet — passes Bell — hit hard in the face
by a Bludger, hope it broke his nose — only joking,
Professor — Slytherins score — oh no ...”

The Slytherins were cheering. No one seemed to have
noticed that Harry’s broom was behaving strangely It
was carrying him slowly higher, away from the game,
jerking and twitching as it went.



Page | 212 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Dunno what Harry thinks he’s doing,” Hagrid
mumbled. He stared through his binoculars. “If I
didn’ know better, I’d say he’d lost control of his
broom ... but he can’t have. ...”

Suddenly, people were pointing up at Harry all over
the stands. His broom had started to roll over and
over, with him only just managing to hold on. Then
the whole crowd gasped. Harry’s broom had given a
wild jerk and Harry swung off it. He was now dangling
from it, holding on with only one hand.

“Did something happen to it when Flint blocked him?”
Seamus whispered.

“Can’t have,” Hagrid said, his voice shaking. “Can’t
nothing interfere with a broomstick except powerful
Dark magic — no kid could do that to a Nimbus Two
Thousand.”

At these words, Hermione seized Hagrid ’s binoculars,
but instead of looking up at Harry, she started
looking frantically at the crowd.

“What are you doing?” moaned Ron, gray-faced.

“I knew it,” Hermione gasped, “Snape — look.”

Ron grabbed the binoculars. Snape was in the middle
of the stands opposite them. He had his eyes fixed on
Harry and was muttering nonstop under his breath.

“He’s doing something — jinxing the broom,” said
Hermione.

“What should we do?”

“Leave it to me.”



Page | 213 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




Before Ron could say another word, Hermione had
disappeared. Ron turned the binoculars back on
Harry. His broom was vibrating so hard, it was almost
impossible for him to hang on much longer. The
whole crowd was on its feet, watching, terrified, as the
Weasleys flew up to try and pull Harry safely onto one
of their brooms, but it was no good — every time they
got near him, the broom would jump higher still. They
dropped lower and circled beneath him, obviously
hoping to catch him if he fell. Marcus Flint seized the
Quaffle and scored five times without anyone
noticing.

“Come on, Hermione,” Ron muttered desperately.

Hermione had fought her way across to the stand
where Snape stood, and was now racing along the row
behind him; she didn’t even stop to say sorry as she
knocked Professor Quirrell headfirst into the row in
front. Reaching Snape, she crouched down, pulled
out her wand, and whispered a few, well-chosen
words. Bright blue flames shot from her wand onto
the hem of Snape ’s robes.

It took perhaps thirty seconds for Snape to realize
that he was on fire. A sudden yelp told her she had
done her job. Scooping the fire off him into a little jar
in her pocket, she scrambled back along the row —
Snape would never know what had happened.

It was enough. Up in the air, Harry was suddenly able
to clamber back on to his broom.

“Neville, you can look!” Ron said. Neville had been
sobbing into Hagrid’s jacket for the last five minutes.

Harry was speeding toward the ground when the
crowd saw him clap his hand to his mouth as though



Page | 214 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




he was about to be sick — he hit the field on all fours
— coughed — and something gold fell into his hand.

“I’ve got the Snitch!” he shouted, waving it above his
head, and the game ended in complete confusion.

“He didn’t catch it, he nearly swallowed it,” Flint was
still howling twenty minutes later, but it made no
difference — Harry hadn’t broken any rules and Lee
Jordan was still happily shouting the results —
Gryffindor had won by one hundred and seventy
points to sixty. Harry heard none of this, though. He
was being made a cup of strong tea back in Hagrid’s
hut, with Ron and Hermione.

“It was Snape,” Ron was explaining, “Hermione and I
saw him. He was cursing your broomstick, muttering,
he wouldn’t take his eyes off you.”

“Rubbish,” said Hagrid, who hadn’t heard a word of
what had gone on next to him in the stands. “Why
would Snape do somethin’ like that?”

Harry, Ron, and Hermione looked at one another,
wondering what to tell him. Harry decided on the
truth.

“I found out something about him,” he told Hagrid.
“He tried to get past that three-headed dog on
Halloween. It bit him. We think he was trying to steal
whatever it’s guarding.”

Hagrid dropped the teapot.

“How do you know about Fluffy?” he said.

“ Fluffy ?”



Page | 215 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Yeah — he’s mine — bought him off a Greek chappie
I met in the pub las’ year — I lent him to Dumbledore
to guard the — ”

“Yes?” said Harry eagerly.

“Now, don’t ask me anymore,” said Hagrid gruffly.
“That’s top secret, that is.”

“But Snape’s trying to steal it.”

“Rubbish,” said Hagrid again. “Snape’s a Hogwarts
teacher, he’d do nothin’ of the sort.”

“So why did he just try and kill Harry?” cried
Hermione.

The afternoon’s events certainly seemed to have
changed her mind about Snape.

“I know a jinx when I see one, Hagrid, I’ve read all
about them! You’ve got to keep eye contact, and
Snape wasn’t blinking at all, I saw him!”

“I’m tellin’ yeh, yer wrong!” said Hagrid hotly. “I don’
know why Harry’s broom acted like that, but Snape
wouldn’ try an’ kill a student! Now, listen to me, all
three of yeh — yer meddlin’ in things that don’
concern yeh. It’s dangerous. You forget that dog, an’
you forget what it’s guardin’, that’s between Professor
Dumbledore an’ Nicolas Flamel — ■”

“Aha!” said Harry, “so there’s someone called Nicolas
Flamel involved, is there?”

Hagrid looked furious with himself.



Page | 216 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling






THE MIRROR OF ERISED

Christmas was coming. One morning in mid-
December, Hogwarts woke to find itself covered in
several feet of snow. The lake froze solid and the
Weasley twins were punished for bewitching several
snowballs so that they followed Quirrell around,
bouncing off the back of his turban. The few owls that
managed to battle their way through the stormy sky
to deliver mail had to be nursed back to health by
Hagrid before they could fly off again.

No one could wait for the holidays to start. While the
Gryffindor common room and the Great Hall had
roaring fires, the drafty corridors had become icy and
a bitter wind rattled the windows in the classrooms.
Worst of all were Professor Snape’s classes down in
the dungeons, where their breath rose in a mist
before them and they kept as close as possible to
their hot cauldrons.

“I do feel so sorry,” said Draco Malfoy, one Potions
class, “for all those people who have to stay at



Page | 217 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling



Hogwarts for Christmas because they’re not wanted
at home.”

He was looking over at Harry as he spoke. Crabbe and
Goyle chuckled. Harry, who was measuring out
powdered spine of lion-fish, ignored them. Malfoy had
been even more unpleasant than usual since the
Quidditch match. Disgusted that the Slytherins had
lost, he had tried to get everyone laughing at how a
wide-mouthed tree frog would be replacing Harry as
Seeker next. Then he’d realized that nobody found
this funny, because they were all so impressed at the
way Harry had managed to stay on his bucking
broomstick. So Malfoy, jealous and angry, had gone
back to taunting Harry about having no proper
family.

It was true that Harry wasn’t going back to Privet
Drive for Christmas. Professor McGonagall had come
around the week before, making a list of students
who would be staying for the holidays, and Harry had
signed up at once. He didn’t feel sorry for himself at
all; this would probably be the best Christmas he’d
ever had. Ron and his brothers were staying, too,
because Mr. and Mrs. Weasley were going to Romania
to visit Charlie.

When they left the dungeons at the end of Potions,
they found a large fir tree blocking the corridor ahead.
Two enormous feet sticking out at the bottom and a
loud puffing sound told them that Hagrid was behind
it.

“Hi, Hagrid, want any help?” Ron asked, sticking his
head through the branches.

“Nah, I’m all right, thanks, Ron.”



Page | 218 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Would you mind moving out of the way?” came
Malfoy’s cold drawl from behind them. “Are you trying
to earn some extra money, Weasley? Hoping to be
gamekeeper yourself when you leave Hogwarts, I
suppose — that hut of Hagrid’s must seem like a
palace compared to what your family’s used to.”

Ron dived at Malfoy just as Snape came up the stairs.

“WEASLEY!”

Ron let go of the front of Malfoy’s robes.

“He was provoked, Professor Snape,” said Hagrid,
sticking his huge hairy face out from behind the tree.
“Malfoy was insultin’ his family.”

“Be that as it may, fighting is against Hogwarts rules,
Hagrid,” said Snape silkily. “Five points from
Gryffindor, Weasley, and be grateful it isn’t more.
Move along, all of you.”

Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle pushed roughly past the
tree, scattering needles everywhere and smirking.

“I’ll get him,” said Ron, grinding his teeth at Malfoy’s
back, “one of these days, I’ll get him — ”

“I hate them both,” said Harry, “Malfoy and Snape.”

“Come on, cheer up, it’s nearly Christmas,” said
Hagrid. “Tell yeh what, come with me an’ see the
Great Hall, looks a treat.”

So the three of them followed Hagrid and his tree off
to the Great Hall, where Professor McGonagall and
Professor Flitwick were busy with the Christmas
decorations.



Page | 219 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Ah, Hagrid, the last tree — put it in the far corner,
would you?”

The hall looked spectacular. Festoons of holly and
mistletoe hung all around the walls, and no less than
twelve towering Christmas trees stood around the
room, some sparkling with tiny icicles, some glittering
with hundreds of candles.

“How many days you got left until yer holidays?”
Hagrid asked.

“Just one,” said Hermione. “And that reminds me —
Harry, Ron, we’ve got half an hour before lunch, we
should be in the library.”

“Oh yeah, you’re right,” said Ron, tearing his eyes
away from Professor Flitwick, who had golden
bubbles blossoming out of his wand and was trailing
them over the branches of the new tree.

“The library?” said Hagrid, following them out of the
hall. “Just before the holidays? Bit keen, aren’t yeh?”

“Oh, we’re not working,” Harry told him brightly.

“Ever since you mentioned Nicolas Flamel we’ve been
trying to find out who he is.”

“You what?” Hagrid looked shocked. “Listen here —
I’ve told yeh — drop it. It’s nothin’ to you what that
dog’s guardin’.”

“We just want to know who Nicolas Flamel is, that’s
all,” said Hermione.

“Unless you’d like to tell us and save us the trouble?”
Harry added. “We must’ve been through hundreds of
books already and we can’t find him anywhere — just



Page | 220 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




give us a hint — I know I’ve read his name
somewhere.”

“I’m sayin’ nothin’,” said Hagrid flatly.

“Just have to find out for ourselves, then,” said Ron,
and they left Hagrid looking disgruntled and hurried
off to the library.

They had indeed been searching books for Flamel’s
name ever since Hagrid had let it slip, because how
else were they going to find out what Snape was
trying to steal? The trouble was, it was very hard to
know where to begin, not knowing what Flamel might
have done to get himself into a book. He wasn’t in
Great Wizards of the Twentieth Century, or Notable
Magical Names of Our Time ; he was missing, too, from
Important Modern Magical Discoveries, and A Study of
Recent Developments in Wizardry. And then, of
course, there was the sheer size of the library; tens of
thousands of books; thousands of shelves; hundreds
of narrow rows.

Hermione took out a list of subjects and titles she had
decided to search while Ron strode off down a row of
books and started pulling them off the shelves at
random. Harry wandered over to the Restricted
Section. He had been wondering for a while if Flamel
wasn’t somewhere in there. Unfortunately, you
needed a specially signed note from one of the
teachers to look in any of the restricted books, and he
knew he’d never get one. These were the books
containing powerful Dark Magic never taught at
Hogwarts, and only read by older students studying
advanced Defense Against the Dark Arts.

“What are you looking for, boy?”

“Nothing,” said Harry.

Page | 221 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




Madam Pince the librarian brandished a feather
duster at him.

“You’d better get out, then. Go on — out!”

Wishing he’d been a bit quicker at thinking up some
story, Harry left the library. He, Ron, and Hermione
had already agreed they’d better not ask Madam
Pince where they could find Flamel. They were sure
she’d be able to tell them, but they couldn’t risk
Snape hearing what they were up to.

Harry waited outside in the corridor to see if the other
two had found anything, but he wasn’t very hopeful.
They had been looking for two weeks, after all, but as
they only had odd moments between lessons it wasn’t
surprising they’d found nothing. What they really
needed was a nice long search without Madam Pince
breathing down their necks.

Five minutes later, Ron and Hermione joined him,
shaking their heads. They went off to lunch.

“You will keep looking while I’m away, won’t you?”
said Hermione. “And send me an owl if you find
anything.”

“And you could ask your parents if they know who
Flamel is,” said Ron. “It’d be safe to ask them.”

“Very safe, as they’re both dentists,” said Hermione.

Once the holidays had started, Ron and Harry were
having too good a time to think much about Flamel.
They had the dormitory to themselves and the
common room was far emptier than usual, so they
were able to get the good armchairs by the fire. They
sat by the hour eating anything they could spear on a
toasting fork — bread, English muffins,

Page | 222 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




marshmallows — and plotting ways of getting Malfoy
expelled, which were fun to talk about even if they
wouldn’t work.

Ron also started teaching Harry wizard chess. This
was exactly like Muggle chess except that the figures
were alive, which made it a lot like directing troops in
battle. Ron’s set was very old and battered. Like
everything else he owned, it had once belonged to
someone else in his family — in this case, his
grandfather. However, old chessmen weren’t a
drawback at all. Ron knew them so well he never had
trouble getting them to do what he wanted.

Harry played with chessmen Seamus Finnigan had
lent him, and they didn’t trust him at all. He wasn’t a
very good player yet and they kept shouting different
bits of advice at him, which was confusing. “Don’t
send me there, can’t you see his knight? Send him, we
can afford to lose him.”

On Christmas Eve, Harry went to bed looking forward
to the next day for the food and the fun, but not
expecting any presents at all. When he woke early in
the morning, however, the first thing he saw was a
small pile of packages at the foot of his bed.

“Merry Christmas,” said Ron sleepily as Harry
scrambled out of bed and pulled on his bathrobe.

“You, too,” said Harry. “Will you look at this? I’ve got
some presents!”

“What did you expect, turnips?” said Ron, turning to
his own pile, which was a lot bigger than Harry’s.

Harry picked up the top parcel. It was wrapped in
thick brown paper and scrawled across it was To
Harry, from Hagrid. Inside was a roughly cut wooden

Page | 223 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




flute. Hagrid had obviously whittled it himself. Harry
blew it — it sounded a bit like an owl.

A second, very small parcel contained a note.

We received your message and enclose your Christmas
present. From Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia. Taped
to the note was a fifty-pence piece.

“That’s friendly,” said Harry.

Ron was fascinated by the fifty pence.

“ Weird\ ” he said, “What a shape! This is money?”

“You can keep it,” said Harry, laughing at how
pleased Ron was. “Hagrid and my aunt and uncle —
so who sent these?”

“I think I know who that one’s from,” said Ron,
turning a bit pink and pointing to a very lumpy
parcel. “My mom. I told her you didn’t expect any
presents and — oh, no,” he groaned, “she’s made you
a Weasley sweater.”

Harry had torn open the parcel to find a thick, hand-
knitted sweater in emerald green and a large box of
homemade fudge.

“Every year she makes us a sweater,” said Ron,
unwrapping his own, “and mine’s always maroon.”

“That’s really nice of her,” said Harry, trying the
fudge, which was very tasty.

His next present also contained candy — a large box
of Chocolate Frogs from Hermione.



Page | 224 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




This only left one parcel. Harry picked it up and felt
it. It was very light. He unwrapped it.

Something fluid and silvery gray went slithering to the
floor where it lay in gleaming folds. Ron gasped.

“I’ve heard of those,” he said in a hushed voice,
dropping the box of Every Flavor Beans he’d gotten
from Hermione. “If that’s what I think it is — they’re
really rare, and really valuable.”

“What is it?”

Harry picked the shining, silvery cloth off the floor. It
was strange to the touch, like water woven into
material.

“It’s an Invisibility Cloak,” said Ron, a look of awe on
his face. “I’m sure it is — try it on.”

Harry threw the cloak around his shoulders and Ron
gave a yell.

“It is! Look down!”

Harry looked down at his feet, but they were gone. He
dashed to the mirror. Sure enough, his reflection
looked back at him, just his head suspended in
midair, his body completely invisible. He pulled the
cloak over his head and his reflection vanished
completely.

“There’s a note!” said Ron suddenly. “A note fell out of
it!”



Harry pulled off the cloak and seized the letter.
Written in narrow, loopy writing he had never seen
before were the following words:



Page | 225 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




Your father left this in my possession before he died. It
is time it was returned to you.

Use it well.

A Very Merry Christmas to you.

There was no signature. Harry stared at the note. Ron
was admiring the cloak.

“I’d give anuthinq for one of these,” he said. “Anuthinq.
What’s the matter?”

“Nothing,” said Harry. He felt very strange. Who had
sent the cloak? Had it really once belonged to his
father?

Before he could say or think anything else, the
dormitory door was flung open and Fred and George
Weasley bounded in. Harry stuffed the cloak quickly
out of sight. He didn’t feel like sharing it with anyone
else yet.

“Merry Christmas!”

“Hey, look — Harry’s got a Weasley sweater, too!”

Fred and George were wearing blue sweaters, one
with a large yellow F on it, the other a G.

“Harry’s is better than ours, though,” said Fred,
holding up Harry’s sweater. “She obviously makes
more of an effort if you’re not family.”

“Why aren’t you wearing yours, Ron?” George
demanded. “Come on, get it on, they’re lovely and
warm.”



Page | 226 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“I hate maroon,” Ron moaned halfheartedly as he
pulled it over his head.

“You haven’t got a letter on yours,” George observed.

“I suppose she thinks you don’t forget your name. But
we’re not stupid — we know we’re called Gred and
Forge.”

“What’s all this noise?”

Percy Weasley stuck his head through the door,
looking disapproving. He had clearly gotten halfway
through unwrapping his presents as he, too, carried a
lumpy sweater over his arm, which Fred seized.

“P for prefect! Get it on, Percy, come on, we’re all
wearing ours, even Harry got one.”

“I — don’t — want — ” said Percy thickly, as the twins
forced the sweater over his head, knocking his glasses
askew.

“And you’re not sitting with the prefects today,
either,” said George. “Christmas is a time for family.”

They frog-marched Percy from the room, his arms
pinned to his side by his sweater.

Harry had never in all his life had such a Christmas
dinner. A hundred fat, roast turkeys; mountains of
roast and boiled potatoes; platters of chipolatas;
tureens of buttered peas, silver boats of thick, rich
gravy and cranberry sauce — and stacks of wizard
crackers every few feet along the table. These
fantastic party favors were nothing like the feeble
Muggle ones the Dursleys usually bought, with their
little plastic toys and their flimsy paper hats inside.
Harry pulled a wizard cracker with Fred and it didn’t
just bang, it went off with a blast like a cannon and
Page | 227 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




engulfed them all in a cloud of blue smoke, while from
the inside exploded a rear admiral’s hat and several
live, white mice. Up at the High Table, Dumbledore
had swapped his pointed wizard’s hat for a flowered
bonnet, and was chuckling merrily at a joke Professor
Flitwick had just read him.

Flaming Christmas puddings followed the turkey.
Percy nearly broke his teeth on a silver Sickle
embedded in his slice. Harry watched Hagrid getting
redder and redder in the face as he called for more
wine, finally kissing Professor McGonagall on the
cheek, who, to Harry’s amazement, giggled and
blushed, her top hat lopsided.

When Harry finally left the table, he was laden down
with a stack of things out of the crackers, including a
pack of non-explodable, luminous balloons, a Grow-
Your-Own-Warts kit, and his own new wizard chess
set. The white mice had disappeared and Harry had a
nasty feeling they were going to end up as Mrs.
Norris’s Christmas dinner.

Harry and the Weasleys spent a happy afternoon
having a furious snowball fight on the grounds. Then,
cold, wet, and gasping for breath, they returned to the
fire in the Gryffindor common room, where Harry
broke in his new chess set by losing spectacularly to
Ron. He suspected he wouldn’t have lost so badly if
Percy hadn’t tried to help him so much.

After a meal of turkey sandwiches, crumpets, trifle,
and Christmas cake, everyone felt too full and sleepy
to do much before bed except sit and watch Percy
chase Fred and George all over Gryffindor Tower
because they’d stolen his prefect badge.

It had been Harry’s best Christmas day ever. Yet
something had been nagging at the back of his mind

Page | 228 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




all day. Not until he climbed into bed was he free to
think about it: the Invisibility Cloak and whoever had
sent it.

Ron, full of turkey and cake and with nothing
mysterious to bother him, fell asleep almost as soon
as he’d drawn the curtains of his four-poster. Harry
leaned over the side of his own bed and pulled the
cloak out from under it.

His father’s ... this had been his father’s. He let the
material flow over his hands, smoother than silk, light
as air. Use it well, the note had said.

He had to try it, now. He slipped out of bed and
wrapped the cloak around himself. Looking down at
his legs, he saw only moonlight and shadows. It was a
very funny feeling.

Use it well.

Suddenly, Harry felt wide-awake. The whole of
Hogwarts was open to him in this cloak. Excitement
flooded through him as he stood there in the dark
and silence. He could go anywhere in this, anywhere,
and Filch would never know.

Ron grunted in his sleep. Should Harry wake him?
Something held him back — his father’s cloak — he
felt that this time — the first time — he wanted to use
it alone.

He crept out of the dormitory, down the stairs, across
the common room, and climbed through the portrait
hole.

“Who’s there?” squawked the Fat Lady. Harry said
nothing. He walked quickly down the corridor.



Page | 229 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




Where should he go? He stopped, his heart racing,
and thought. And then it came to him. The Restricted
Section in the library. He’d be able to read as long as
he liked, as long as it took to find out who Flamel
was. He set off, drawing the Invisibility Cloak tight
around him as he walked.

The library was pitch-black and very eerie. Harry lit a
lamp to see his way along the rows of books. The
lamp looked as if it was floating along in midair, and
even though Harry could feel his arm supporting it,
the sight gave him the creeps.

The Restricted Section was right at the back of the
library. Stepping carefully over the rope that
separated these books from the rest of the library, he
held up his lamp to read the titles.

They didn’t tell him much. Their peeling, faded gold
letters spelled words in languages Harry couldn’t
understand. Some had no title at all. One book had a
dark stain on it that looked horribly like blood. The
hairs on the back of Harry’s neck prickled. Maybe he
was imagining it, maybe not, but he thought a faint
whispering was coming from the books, as though
they knew someone was there who shouldn’t be.

He had to start somewhere. Setting the lamp down
carefully on the floor, he looked along the bottom
shelf for an interesting-looking book. A large black
and silver volume caught his eye. He pulled it out
with difficulty, because it was very heavy, and,
balancing it on his knee, let it fall open.

A piercing, bloodcurdling shriek split the silence —
the book was screaming! Harry snapped it shut, but
the shriek went on and on, one high, unbroken,
earsplitting note. He stumbled backward and knocked
over his lamp, which went out at once. Panicking, he
Page | 230 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




heard footsteps coming down the corridor outside —
stuffing the shrieking book back on the shelf, he ran
for it. He passed Filch in the doorway; Filch’s pale,
wild eyes looked straight through him, and Harry
slipped under Filch’s outstretched arm and streaked
off up the corridor, the book’s shrieks still ringing in
his ears.

He came to a sudden halt in front of a tall suit of
armor. He had been so busy getting away from the
library, he hadn’t paid attention to where he was
going. Perhaps because it was dark, he didn’t
recognize where he was at all. There was a suit of
armor near the kitchens, he knew, but he must be
five floors above there.

“You asked me to come directly to you, Professor, if
anyone was wandering around at night, and
somebody’s been in the library — Restricted Section.”

Harry felt the blood drain out of his face. Wherever he
was, Filch must know a shortcut, because his soft,
greasy voice was getting nearer, and to his horror, it
was Snape who replied, “The Restricted Section? Well,
they can’t be far, we’ll catch them.”

Harry stood rooted to the spot as Filch and Snape
came around the corner ahead. They couldn’t see
him, of course, but it was a narrow corridor and if
they came much nearer they’d knock right into him —
the cloak didn’t stop him from being solid.

He backed away as quietly as he could. A door stood
ajar to his left. It was his only hope. He squeezed
through it, holding his breath, trying not to move it,
and to his relief he managed to get inside the room
without their noticing anything. They walked straight
past, and Harry leaned against the wall, breathing
deeply, listening to their footsteps dying away. That
Page | 231 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




had been close, very close. It was a few seconds
before he noticed anything about the room he had
hidden in.



It looked like an unused classroom. The dark shapes
of desks and chairs were piled against the walls, and
there was an upturned wastepaper basket — but
propped against the wall facing him was something
that didn’t look as if it belonged there, something that
looked as if someone had just put it there to keep it
out of the way.

It was a magnificent mirror, as high as the ceiling,
with an ornate gold frame, standing on two clawed
feet. There was an inscription carved around the top:
Erised stra ehru oyt ube cafru oyt on wohsi.

His panic fading now that there was no sound of Filch
and Snape, Harry moved nearer to the mirror,
wanting to look at himself but see no reflection again.
He stepped in front of it.

He had to clap his hands to his mouth to stop himself
from screaming. He whirled around. His heart was
pounding far more furiously than when the book had
screamed — for he had seen not only himself in the
mirror, but a whole crowd of people standing right
behind him.

But the room was empty. Breathing very fast, he
turned slowly back to the mirror.

There he was, reflected in it, white and scared-
looking, and there, reflected behind him, were at least
ten others. Harry looked over his shoulder — but still,
no one was there. Or were they all invisible, too? Was
he in fact in a room full of invisible people and this
mirrors trick was that it reflected them, invisible or
not?

Page | 232 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




He looked in the mirror again. A woman standing
right behind his reflection was smiling at him and
waving. He reached out a hand and felt the air behind
him. If she was really there, he’d touch her, their
reflections were so close together, but he felt only air
— she and the others existed only in the mirror.

She was a very pretty woman. She had dark red hair
and her eyes — her eyes are just like mine, Harry
thought, edging a little closer to the glass. Bright
green — exactly the same shape, but then he noticed
that she was crying; smiling, but crying at the same
time. The tall, thin, black-haired man standing next
to her put his arm around her. He wore glasses, and
his hair was very untidy. It stuck up at the back, just
as Harry’s did.

Harry was so close to the mirror now that his nose
was nearly touching that of his reflection.

“Mom?” he whispered. “Dad?”

They just looked at him, smiling. And slowly, Harry
looked into the faces of the other people in the mirror,
and saw other pairs of green eyes like his, other noses
like his, even a little old man who looked as though
he had Harry’s knobbly knees — Harry was looking at
his family, for the first time in his life.

The Potters smiled and waved at Harry and he stared
hungrily back at them, his hands pressed flat against
the glass as though he was hoping to fall right
through it and reach them. He had a powerful kind of
ache inside him, half joy, half terrible sadness.

How long he stood there, he didn’t know. The
reflections did not fade and he looked and looked
until a distant noise brought him back to his senses.
He couldn’t stay here, he had to find his way back to

Page | 233 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




bed. He tore his eyes away from his mother’s face,
whispered, “I’ll come back,” and hurried from the
room.

“You could have woken me up,” said Ron, crossly.

“You can come tonight, I’m going back, I want to show
you the mirror.”

“I’d like to see your mom and dad,” Ron said eagerly.

“And I want to see all your family, all the Weasleys,
you’ll be able to show me your other brothers and
everyone.”

“You can see them any old time,” said Ron. “Just
come round my house this summer. Anyway, maybe
it only shows dead people. Shame about not finding
Flamel, though. Have some bacon or something, why
aren’t you eating anything?”

Harry couldn’t eat. He had seen his parents and
would be seeing them again tonight. He had almost
forgotten about Flamel. It didn’t seem very important
anymore. Who cared what the three-headed dog was
guarding? What did it matter if Snape stole it, really?

“Are you all right?” said Ron. “You look odd.”

What Harry feared most was that he might not be
able to find the mirror room again. With Ron covered
in the cloak, too, they had to walk much more slowly
the next night. They tried retracing Harry’s route from
the library, wandering around the dark passageways
for nearly an hour.

“I’m freezing,” said Ron. “Let’s forget it and go back.”

“IVo!” Harry hissed. “I know it’s here somewhere.”

Page | 234 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




They passed the ghost of a tall witch gliding in the
opposite direction, but saw no one else. Just as Ron
started moaning that his feet were dead with cold,
Harry spotted the suit of armor.

“It’s here — just here — yes!”

They pushed the door open. Harry dropped the cloak
from around his shoulders and ran to the mirror.

There they were. His mother and father beamed at the
sight of him.

“See?” Harry whispered.

“I can’t see anything.”

“Look! Look at them all ... there are loads of them. ...”
“I can only see you.”

“Look in it properly, go on, stand where I am.”

Harry stepped aside, but with Ron in front of the
mirror, he couldn’t see his family anymore, just Ron
in his paisley pajamas.

Ron, though, was staring transfixed at his image.
“Look at me!” he said.

“Can you see all your family standing around you?”

“No — I’m alone — but I’m different — I look older —
and I’m Head Boy!”

“What?”



Page | 235 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“I am — I’m wearing the badge like Bill used to — and
I’m holding the House Cup and the Quidditch Cup —
I’m Quidditch captain, too!”

Ron tore his eyes away from this splendid sight to
look excitedly at Harry.

“Do you think this mirror shows the future?”

“How can it? All my family are dead — let me have
another look — ”

“You had it to yourself all last night, give me a bit
more time.”

“You’re only holding the Quidditch Cup, what’s
interesting about that? I want to see my parents.”

“Don’t push me — ”

A sudden noise outside in the corridor put an end to
their discussion. They hadn’t realized how loudly they
had been talking.

“Quick!”

Ron threw the cloak back over them as the luminous
eyes of Mrs. Norris came round the door. Ron and
Harry stood quite still, both thinking the same thing
— did the cloak work on cats? After what seemed an
age, she turned and left.

“This isn’t safe — she might have gone for Filch, I bet
she heard us. Come on.”

And Ron pulled Harry out of the room.

The snow still hadn’t melted the next morning.



Page | 236 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Want to play chess, Harry?” said Ron.



“No.”

“Why don’t we go down and visit Hagrid?”

“No ... you go ...”

“I know what you’re thinking about, Harry, that
mirror. Don’t go back tonight.”

“Why not?”

“I dunno, I’ve just got a bad feeling about it — and
anyway, you’ve had too many close shaves already.
Filch, Snape, and Mrs. Norris are wandering around.
So what if they can’t see you? What if they walk into
you? What if you knock something over?”

“You sound like Hermione.”

“I’m serious, Harry, don’t go.”

But Harry only had one thought in his head, which
was to get back in front of the mirror, and Ron wasn’t
going to stop him.

That third night he found his way more quickly than
before. He was walking so fast he knew he was
making more noise than was wise, but he didn’t meet
anyone.

And there were his mother and father smiling at him
again, and one of his grandfathers nodding happily.
Harry sank down to sit on the floor in front of the
mirror. There was nothing to stop him from staying
here all night with his family. Nothing at all.

Except —

Page | 237 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“So — back again, Harry?”

Harry felt as though his insides had turned to ice. He
looked behind him. Sitting on one of the desks by the
wall was none other than Albus Dumbledore. Harry
must have walked straight past him, so desperate to
get to the mirror he hadn’t noticed him.

“I — I didn’t see you, sir.”

“Strange how nearsighted being invisible can make
you,” said Dumbledore, and Harry was relieved to see
that he was smiling.

“So,” said Dumbledore, slipping off the desk to sit on
the floor with Harry, “you, like hundreds before you,
have discovered the delights of the Mirror of Erised.”

“I didn’t know it was called that, sir.”

“But I expect you’ve realized by now what it does?”

“It — well — it shows me my family — ”

“And it showed your friend Ron himself as Head Boy.”

“How did you know — ?”

“I don’t need a cloak to become invisible,” said
Dumbledore gently. “Now, can you think what the
Mirror of Erised shows us all?”

Harry shook his head.

“Let me explain. The happiest man on earth would be
able to use the Mirror of Erised like a normal mirror,
that is, he would look into it and see himself exactly
as he is. Does that help?”



Page | 238 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




Harry thought. Then he said slowly, “It shows us
what we want ... whatever we want ...”

“Yes and no,” said Dumbledore quietly. “It shows us
nothing more or less than the deepest, most
desperate desire of our hearts. You, who have never
known your family, see them standing around you.
Ronald Weasley, who has always been overshadowed
by his brothers, sees himself standing alone, the best
of all of them. However, this mirror will give us
neither knowledge or truth. Men have wasted away
before it, entranced by what they have seen, or been
driven mad, not knowing if what it shows is real or
even possible.

“The Mirror will be moved to a new home tomorrow,
Harry, and I ask you not to go looking for it again. If
you ever do run across it, you will now be prepared. It
does not do to dwell on dreams and forget to live,
remember that. Now, why don’t you put that
admirable cloak back on and get off to bed?”

Harry stood up.

“Sir — Professor Dumbledore? Can I ask you
something?”

“Obviously, you’ve just done so,” Dumbledore smiled.
“You may ask me one more thing, however.”

“What do you see when you look in the mirror?”

“I? I see myself holding a pair of thick, woolen socks.”

Harry stared.

“One can never have enough socks,” said
Dumbledore. “Another Christmas has come and gone



Page | 239 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




and I didn’t get a single pair. People will insist on
giving me books.”

It was only when he was back in bed that it struck
Harry that Dumbledore might not have been quite
truthful. But then, he thought, as he shoved
Scabbers off his pillow, it had been quite a personal
question.



Page | 240 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling






NICHOLAS FLAMBL

Dumbledore had convinced Harry not to go looking
for the Mirror of Erised again, and for the rest of the
Christmas holidays the Invisibility Cloak stayed
folded at the bottom of his trunk. Harry wished he
could forget what he’d seen in the mirror as easily,
but he couldn’t. He started having nightmares. Over
and over again he dreamed about his parents
disappearing in a flash of green light, while a high
voice cackled with laughter.

“You see, Dumbledore was right, that mirror could
drive you mad,” said Ron, when Harry told him about
these dreams.

Hermione, who came back the day before term
started, took a different view of things. She was torn
between horror at the idea of Harry being out of bed,
roaming the school three nights in a row (“If Filch had
caught you!”), and disappointment that he hadn’t at
least found out who Nicolas Flamel was.



Page | 241 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling



They had almost given up hope of ever finding Flamel
in a library book, even though Harry was still sure
he’d read the name somewhere. Once term had
started, they were back to skimming through books
for ten minutes during their breaks. Harry had even
less time than the other two, because Quidditch
practice had started again.

Wood was working the team harder than ever. Even
the endless rain that had replaced the snow couldn’t
dampen his spirits. The Weasleys complained that
Wood was becoming a fanatic, but Harry was on
Wood’s side. If they won their next match, against
Hufflepuff, they would overtake Slytherin in the
House Championship for the first time in seven years.
Quite apart from wanting to win, Harry found that he
had fewer nightmares when he was tired out after
training.

Then, during one particularly wet and muddy practice
session, Wood gave the team a bit of bad news. He’d
just gotten very angry with the Weasleys, who kept
dive-bombing each other and pretending to fall off
their brooms.

“Will you stop messing around!” he yelled. “That’s
exactly the sort of thing that’ll lose us the match!
Snape’s refereeing this time, and he’ll be looking for
any excuse to knock points off Gryffindor!”

George Weasley really did fall off his broom at these
words.

“ Snape’s refereeing?” he spluttered through a
mouthful of mud. “When’s he ever refereed a
Quidditch match? He’s not going to be fair if we might
overtake Slytherin.”



Page | 242 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




The rest of the team landed next to George to
complain, too.

“It’s not my fault,” said Wood. “We’ve just got to make
sure we play a clean game, so Snape hasn’t got an
excuse to pick on us.”

Which was all very well, thought Harry, but he had
another reason for not wanting Snape near him while
he was playing Quidditch. ...

The rest of the team hung back to talk to one another
as usual at the end of practice, but Harry headed
straight back to the Gryffindor common room, where
he found Ron and Hermione playing chess. Chess was
the only thing Hermione ever lost at, something Harry
and Ron thought was very good for her.

“Don’t talk to me for a moment,” said Ron when Harry
sat down next to him, “I need to concern” He caught
sight of Harry’s face. “What’s the matter with you?

You look terrible.”

Speaking quietly so that no one else would hear,

Harry told the other two about Snape ’s sudden,
sinister desire to be a Quidditch referee.

“Don’t play,” said Hermione at once.

“Say you’re ill,” said Ron.

“Pretend to break your leg,” Hermione suggested.

“ Really break your leg,” said Ron.

“I can’t,” said Harry. “There isn’t a reserve Seeker. If I
back out, Gryffindor can’t play at all.”



Page | 243 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




At that moment Neville toppled into the common
room. How he had managed to climb through the
portrait hole was anyone’s guess, because his legs
had been stuck together with what they recognized at
once as the Leg-Locker Curse. He must have had to
bunny hop all the way up to Gryffindor Tower.

Everyone fell over laughing except Hermione, who
leapt up and performed the countercurse. Neville’s
legs sprang apart and he got to his feet, trembling.

“What happened?” Hermione asked him, leading him
over to sit with Harry and Ron.

“Malfoy,” said Neville shakily. “I met him outside the
library. He said he’d been looking for someone to
practice that on.”

“Go to Professor McGonagall!” Hermione urged
Neville. “Report him!”

Neville shook his head.

“I don’t want more trouble,” he mumbled.

“You’ve got to stand up to him, Neville!” said Ron.
“He’s used to walking all over people, but that’s no
reason to lie down in front of him and make it easier.”

“There’s no need to tell me I’m not brave enough to be
in Gryffindor, Malfoy’s already done that,” Neville
choked out.

Harry felt in the pocket of his robes and pulled out a
Chocolate Frog, the very last one from the box
Hermione had given him for Christmas. He gave it to
Neville, who looked as though he might cry.



Page | 244 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“You’re worth twelve of Malfoy,” Harry said. “The
Sorting Hat chose you for Gryffindor, didn’t it? And
where’s Malfoy? In stinking Slytherin.”

Neville’s lips twitched in a weak smile as he
unwrapped the frog.

“Thanks, Harry ... I think I’ll go to bed. ... D’you want
the card, you collect them, don’t you?”

As Neville walked away, Harry looked at the Famous
Wizard card.

“Dumbledore again,” he said, “He was the first one I
ever — ”

He gasped. He stared at the back of the card. Then he
looked up at Ron and Hermione.

“I’ve found him\” he whispered. “I’ve found Flamel! I
told you I’d read the name somewhere before, I read it
on the train coming here — listen to this:

‘Dumbledore is particularly famous for his defeat of
the Dark wizard Grindelwald in 1945, for the
discovery of the twelve uses of dragon’s blood, and his
work on alchemy with his partner, Nicolas Flamel’V’

Hermione jumped to her feet. She hadn’t looked so
excited since they’d gotten back the marks for their
very first piece of homework.

“Stay there!” she said, and she sprinted up the stairs
to the girls’ dormitories. Harry and Ron barely had
time to exchange mystified looks before she was
dashing back, an enormous old book in her arms.

“I never thought to look in here!” she whispered
excitedly. “I got this out of the library weeks ago for a
bit of light reading.”

Page | 245 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Light?” said Ron, but Hermione told him to be quiet
until she’d looked something up, and started flicking
frantically through the pages, muttering to herself.

At last she found what she was looking for.

“I knew it! I knew it!”

“Are we allowed to speak yet?” said Ron grumpily.
Hermione ignored him.

“Nicolas Flamel,” she whispered dramatically, “is the
only known maker of the Sorcerer’s Stone\”

This didn’t have quite the effect she’d expected.

“The what?” said Harry and Ron.

“Oh, honestly , don’t you two read? Look — read that,
there.”

She pushed the book toward them, and Harry and
Ron read:

The ancient study of alchemy is concerned with
making the Sorcerer’s Stone, a legendary substance
with astonishing powers. The Stone will transform
any metal into pure gold. It also produces the Elixir of
Life, which will make the drinker immortal.

There have been many reports of the Sorcerer’s Stone
over the centuries, but the only Stone currently in
existence belongs to Mr. Nicolas Flamel, the noted
alchemist and opera lover. Mr. Flamel, who celebrated
his six hundred and sixty-fifth birthday last year,
enjoys a quiet life in Devon with his wife, Perenelle
(six hundred and fifty-eight).



Page | 246 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“See?” said Hermione, when Harry and Ron had
finished. “The dog must be guarding Flamel’s
Sorcerer’s Stone! I bet he asked Dumbledore to keep
it safe for him, because they’re friends and he knew
someone was after it, that’s why he wanted the Stone
moved out of Gringotts!”

“A stone that makes gold and stops you from ever
dying!” said Harry. “No wonder Snape’s after it!

Anyone would want it.”

“And no wonder we couldn’t find Flamel in that Study
of Recent Developments in Wizardry,” said Ron. “He’s
not exactly recent if he’s six hundred and sixty-five, is
he?”

The next morning in Defense Against the Dark Arts,
while copying down different ways of treating werewolf
bites, Harry and Ron were still discussing what they’d
do with a Sorcerer’s Stone if they had one. It wasn’t
until Ron said he’d buy his own Quidditch team that
Harry remembered about Snape and the coming
match.

“I’m going to play,” he told Ron and Hermione. “If I
don’t, all the Slytherins will think I’m just too scared
to face Snape. I’ll show them ... it’ll really wipe the
smiles off their faces if we win.”

“Just as long as we’re not wiping you off the field,”
said Hermione.

As the match drew nearer, however, Harry became
more and more nervous, whatever he told Ron and
Hermione. The rest of the team wasn’t too calm,
either. The idea of overtaking Slytherin in the House
Championship was wonderful, no one had done it for
seven years, but would they be allowed to, with such
a biased referee?

Page | 247 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




Harry didn’t know whether he was imagining it or not,
but he seemed to keep running into Snape wherever
he went. At times, he even wondered whether Snape
was following him, trying to catch him on his own.
Potions lessons were turning into a sort of weekly
torture, Snape was so horrible to Harry. Could Snape
possibly know they’d found out about the Sorcerer’s
Stone? Harry didn’t see how he could — yet he
sometimes had the horrible feeling that Snape could
read minds.

Harry knew, when they wished him good luck
outside the locker rooms the next afternoon, that Ron
and Hermione were wondering whether they’d ever
see him alive again. This wasn’t what you’d call
comforting. Harry hardly heard a word of Wood’s pep
talk as he pulled on his Quidditch robes and picked
up his Nimbus Two Thousand.

Ron and Hermione, meanwhile, had found a place in
the stands next to Neville, who couldn’t understand
why they looked so grim and worried, or why they had
both brought their wands to the match. Little did
Harry know that Ron and Hermione had been secretly
practicing the Leg-Locker Curse. They’d gotten the
idea from Malfoy using it on Neville, and were ready
to use it on Snape if he showed any sign of wanting to
hurt Harry.

“Now, don’t forget, it’s Locomotor Mortis,” Hermione
muttered as Ron slipped his wand up his sleeve.

“I know,” Ron snapped. “Don’t nag.”

Back in the locker room, Wood had taken Harry
aside.

“Don’t want to pressure you, Potter, but if we ever
need an early capture of the Snitch it’s now. Finish

Page | 248 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




the game before Snape can favor Hufflepuff too
much.”

“The whole school’s out there!” said Fred Weasley,
peering out of the door. “Even — blimey —
Dumbledore’s come to watch!”

Harry’s heart did a somersault.

“Dumbledore?” he said, dashing to the door to make
sure. Fred was right. There was no mistaking that
silver beard.

Harry could have laughed out loud with relief. He was
safe. There was simply no way that Snape would dare
to try to hurt him if Dumbledore was watching.

Perhaps that was why Snape was looking so angry as
the teams marched onto the field, something that Ron
noticed, too.

“I’ve never seen Snape look so mean,” he told
Hermione. “Look — they’re off. Ouch!”

Someone had poked Ron in the back of the head. It
was Malfoy.

“Oh, sorry, Weasley, didn’t see you there.”

Malfoy grinned broadly at Crabbe and Goyle.

“Wonder how long Potter’s going to stay on his broom
this time? Anyone want a bet? What about you,
Weasley?”

Ron didn’t answer; Snape had just awarded
Hufflepuff a penalty because George Weasley had hit
a Bludger at him. Hermione, who had all her fingers
crossed in her lap, was squinting fixedly at Harry,

Page | 249 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




who was circling the game like a hawk, looking for the
Snitch.

“You know how I think they choose people for the
Gryffindor team?” said Malfoy loudly a few minutes
later, as Snape awarded Hufflepuff another penalty
for no reason at all. “It’s people they feel sorry for.

See, there’s Potter, who’s got no parents, then there’s
the Weasleys, who’ve got no money — you should be
on the team, Longbottom, you’ve got no brains.”

Neville went bright red but turned in his seat to face
Malfoy.

“I’m worth twelve of you, Malfoy,” he stammered.

Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle howled with laughter, but
Ron, still not daring to take his eyes from the game,
said, “You tell him, Neville.”

“Longbottom, if brains were gold you’d be poorer than
Weasley, and that’s saying something.”

Ron’s nerves were already stretched to the breaking
point with anxiety about Harry.

“I’m warning you, Malfoy — one more word — ”

“Ron!” said Hermione suddenly, “Harry — !”

“What? Where?”

Harry had suddenly gone into a spectacular dive,
which drew gasps and cheers from the crowd.
Hermione stood up, her crossed fingers in her mouth,
as Harry streaked toward the ground like a bullet.

“You’re in luck, Weasley, Potter’s obviously spotted
some money on the ground!” said Malfoy.

Page | 250 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




Ron snapped. Before Malfoy knew what was
happening, Ron was on top of him, wrestling him to
the ground. Neville hesitated, then clambered over the
back of his seat to help.

“Come on, Harry!” Hermione screamed, leaping onto
her seat to watch as Harry sped straight at Snape —
she didn’t even notice Malfoy and Ron rolling around
under her seat, or the scuffles and yelps coming from
the whirl of fists that was Neville, Crabbe, and Goyle.

Up in the air, Snape turned on his broomstick just in
time to see something scarlet shoot past him, missing
him by inches — the next second, Harry had pulled
out of the dive, his arm raised in triumph, the Snitch
clasped in his hand.

The stands erupted; it had to be a record, no one
could ever remember the Snitch being caught so
quickly.

“Ron! Ron! Where are you? The game’s over! Harry’s
won! We’ve won! Gryffindor is in the lead!” shrieked
Hermione, dancing up and down on her seat and
hugging Parvati Patil in the row in front.

Harry jumped off his broom, a foot from the ground.
He couldn’t believe it. He’d done it — the game was
over; it had barely lasted five minutes. As Gryffindors
came spilling onto the field, he saw Snape land
nearby, white-faced and tight-lipped — then Harry felt
a hand on his shoulder and looked up into
Dumbledore’s smiling face.

“Well done,” said Dumbledore quietly, so that only
Harry could hear. “Nice to see you haven’t been
brooding about that mirror . . . been keeping busy . . .
excellent ...”



Page | 251 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




Snape spat bitterly on the ground.



Jc Jc Jc



Harry left the locker room alone some time later, to
take his Nimbus Two Thousand back to the
broomshed. He couldn’t ever remember feeling
happier. He’d really done something to be proud of
now — no one could say he was just a famous name
any more. The evening air had never smelled so
sweet. He walked over the damp grass, reliving the
last hour in his head, which was a happy blur:
Gryffindors running to lift him onto their shoulders;
Ron and Hermione in the distance, jumping up and
down, Ron cheering through a heavy nosebleed.

Harry had reached the shed. He leaned against the
wooden door and looked up at Hogwarts, with its
windows glowing red in the setting sun. Gryffindor in
the lead. He’d done it, he’d shown Snape. ...

And speaking of Snape . . .

A hooded figure came swiftly down the front steps of
the castle. Clearly not wanting to be seen, it walked
as fast as possible toward the forbidden forest.
Harry’s victory faded from his mind as he watched.
He recognized the figure’s prowling walk. Snape,
sneaking into the forest while everyone else was at
dinner — what was going on?

Harry jumped back on his Nimbus Two Thousand
and took off. Gliding silently over the castle he saw
Snape enter the forest at a run. He followed.

The trees were so thick he couldn’t see where Snape
had gone. He flew in circles, lower and lower,
brushing the top branches of trees until he heard



Page | 252 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




voices. He glided toward them and landed noiselessly
in a towering beech tree.

He climbed carefully along one of the branches,
holding tight to his broomstick, trying to see through
the leaves.

Below, in a shadowy clearing, stood Snape, but he
wasn’t alone. Quirrell was there, too. Harry couldn’t
make out the look on his face, but he was stuttering
worse than ever. Harry strained to catch what they
were saying.

"... d-don’t know why you wanted t-t-to meet here of
all p-places, Severus ...”

“Oh, I thought we’d keep this private,” said Snape, his
voice icy. “Students aren’t supposed to know about
the Sorcerer’s Stone, after all.”

Harry leaned forward. Quirrell was mumbling
something. Snape interrupted him.

“Have you found out how to get past that beast of
Hagrid’s yet?”

“B-b-but Severus, I — ”

“You don’t want me as your enemy, Quirrell,” said
Snape, taking a step toward him.

“I-I don’t know what you — ”

“You know perfectly well what I mean.”

An owl hooted loudly, and Harry nearly fell out of the
tree. He steadied himself in time to hear Snape say,

“ — your little bit of hocus-pocus. I’m waiting.”



Page | 253 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“B-but I d-d-don’t — ”



“Very well,” Snape cut in. “Well have another little
chat soon, when you’ve had time to think things over
and decided where your loyalties lie.”

He threw his cloak over his head and strode out of the
clearing. It was almost dark now, but Harry could see
Quirrell, standing quite still as though he was
petrified.



Jc Jc Jc



“Harry, where have you been?” Hermione squeaked.

“We won! You won! We won!” shouted Ron, thumping
Harry on the back. “And I gave Malfoy a black eye,
and Neville tried to take on Crabbe and Goyle single-
handed! He’s still out cold but Madam Pomfrey says
he’ll be all right — talk about showing Slytherin!
Everyone’s waiting for you in the common room, we’re
having a party, Fred and George stole some cakes and
stuff from the kitchens.”

“Never mind that now,” said Harry breathlessly. “Let’s
find an empty room, you wait ’til you hear this. ...”

He made sure Peeves wasn’t inside before shutting
the door behind them, then he told them what he’d
seen and heard.

“So we were right, it is the Sorcerer’s Stone, and
Snape’s trying to force Quirrell to help him get it. He
asked if he knew how to get past Fluffy — and he said
something about Quirrell’s ‘hocus-pocus’ — I reckon
there are other things guarding the stone apart from
Fluffy, loads of enchantments, probably, and Quirrell



Page | 254 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




would have done some anti-Dark Arts spell that
Snape needs to break through — ”

“So you mean the Stone’s only safe as long as Quirrell
stands up to Snape?” said Hermione in alarm.

“It’ll be gone by next Tuesday,” said Ron.



Page | 255 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling






NORBERT THE NORWEGIAN
RIDGEBACK

Quirrell, however, must have been braver than they’d
thought. In the weeks that followed he did seem to be
getting paler and thinner, but it didn’t look as though
he’d cracked yet.

Every time they passed the third-floor corridor, Harry,
Ron, and Hermione would press their ears to the door
to check that Fluffy was still growling inside. Snape
was sweeping about in his usual bad temper, which
surely meant that the Stone was still safe. Whenever
Harry passed Quirrell these days he gave him an
encouraging sort of smile, and Ron had started telling
people off for laughing at Quirrell’s stutter.

Hermione, however, had more on her mind than the
Sorcerer’s Stone. She had started drawing up study
schedules and color-coding all her notes. Harry and
Ron wouldn’t have minded, but she kept nagging
them to do the same.



Page | 256 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling



“Hermione, the exams are ages away.”

“Ten weeks,” Hermione snapped. “That’s not ages,
that’s like a second to Nicolas Flamel.”

“But we’re not six hundred years old,” Ron reminded
her. “Anyway, what are you studying for, you already
know it all.”

“What am I studying for? Are you crazy? You realize
we need to pass these exams to get into the second
year? They’re very important, I should have started
studying a month ago, I don’t know what’s gotten into
me.”

Unfortunately, the teachers seemed to be thinking
along the same lines as Hermione. They piled so
much homework on them that the Easter holidays
weren’t nearly as much fun as the Christmas ones. It
was hard to relax with Hermione next to you reciting
the twelve uses of dragon’s blood or practicing wand
movements. Moaning and yawning, Harry and Ron
spent most of their free time in the library with her,
trying to get through all their extra work.

“I’ll never remember this,” Ron burst out one
afternoon, throwing down his quill and looking
longingly out of the library window. It was the first
really fine day they’d had in months. The sky was a
clear, forget-me-not blue, and there was a feeling in
the air of summer coming.

Harry, who was looking up “Dittany” in One Thousand
Magical Herbs and Fungi, didn’t look up until he
heard Ron say, “Hagrid! What are you doing in the
library?”



Page | 257 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




Hagrid shuffled into view, hiding something behind
his back. He looked very out of place in his moleskin
overcoat.

“Jus’ lookin’,” he said, in a shifty voice that got their
interest at once. “An’ what’re you lot up ter?” He
looked suddenly suspicious. “Yer not still lookin’ fer
Nicolas Flamel, are yeh?”

“Oh, we found out who he is ages ago,” said Ron
impressively. “And we know what that dog’s guarding,
it’s a Sorcerer’s St — ”

“Shhhh\” Hagrid looked around quickly to see if
anyone was listening. “Don’ go shoutin’ about it,
what’s the matter with yeh?”

“There are a few things we wanted to ask you, as a
matter of fact,” said Harry, “about what’s guarding
the Stone apart from Fluffy — ”

“SHHHH!” said Hagrid again. “Listen — come an’ see
me later, I’m not promisin’ I’ll tell yeh anythin’, mind,
but don’ go rabbitin’ about it in here, students aren’
s’pposed ter know. They’ll think I’ve told yeh — ”

“See you later, then,” said Harry.

Hagrid shuffled off.

“What was he hiding behind his back?” said
Hermione thoughtfully.

“Do you think it had anything to do with the Stone?”

“I’m going to see what section he was in,” said Ron,
who’d had enough of working. He came back a
minute later with a pile of books in his arms and
slammed them down on the table.

Page | 258 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Dragons'.” he whispered. “Hagrid was looking up stuff
about dragons! Look at these: Dragon Species of Great
Britain and Ireland; From Egg to Inferno, A Dragon
Keeper’s Guide.”

“Hagrid ’s always wanted a dragon, he told me so the
first time I ever met him,” said Harry.

“But it’s against our laws,” said Ron. “Dragon
breeding was outlawed by the Warlocks’ Convention
of 1709, everyone knows that. It’s hard to stop
Muggles from noticing us if we’re keeping dragons in
the back garden — anyway, you can’t tame dragons,
it’s dangerous. You should see the burns Charlie’s got
off wild ones in Romania.”

“But there aren’t wild dragons in Britain?” said Harry.

“Of course there are,” said Ron. “Common Welsh
Green and Hebridean Blacks. The Ministry of Magic
has a job hushing them up, I can tell you. Our kind
have to keep putting spells on Muggles who’ve spotted
them, to make them forget.”

“So what on earth’s Hagrid up to?” said Hermione.

When they knocked on the door of the gamekeeper’s
hut an hour later, they were surprised to see that all
the curtains were closed. Hagrid called “Who is it?”
before he let them in, and then shut the door quickly
behind them.

It was stifling hot inside. Even though it was such a
warm day, there was a blazing fire in the grate.

Hagrid made them tea and offered them stoat
sandwiches, which they refused.

“So — yeh wanted to ask me somethin’?”



Page | 259 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Yes,” said Harry. There was no point beating around
the bush. “We were wondering if you could tell us
what’s guarding the Sorcerer’s Stone apart from
Fluffy.”

Hagrid frowned at him.

“O’ course I can’t,” he said. “Number one, I don’ know
meself. Number two, yeh know too much already, so I
wouldn’ tell yeh if I could. That Stone’s here fer a good
reason. It was almost stolen outta Gringotts — I
s’ppose yeh’ve worked that out an’ all? Beats me how
yeh even know abou’ Fluffy.”

“Oh, come on, Hagrid, you might not want to tell us,
but you do know, you know everything that goes on
round here,” said Hermione in a warm, flattering
voice. Hagrid ’s beard twitched and they could tell he
was smiling. “We only wondered who had done the
guarding, really.” Hermione went on. “We wondered
who Dumbledore had trusted enough to help him,
apart from you.”

Hagrid ’s chest swelled at these last words. Harry and
Ron beamed at Hermione.

“Well, I don’ s’pose it could hurt ter tell yeh that ...
let’s see ... he borrowed Fluffy from me ... then some
o’ the teachers did enchantments ... Professor Sprout
— Professor Flitwick — Professor McGonagall — ” he
ticked them off on his fingers, “Professor Quirrell —
an’ Dumbledore himself did somethin’, o’ course.

Hang on, I’ve forgotten someone. Oh yeah, Professor
Snape.”

“Snape?”



Page | 260 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Yeah — yer not still on abou’ that, are yeh? Look,
Snape helped protect the Stone, he’s not about ter
steal it.”

Harry knew Ron and Hermione were thinking the
same as he was. If Snape had been in on protecting
the Stone, it must have been easy to find out how the
other teachers had guarded it. He probably knew
everything — except, it seemed, Quirrell’s spell and
how to get past Fluffy.

“You’re the only one who knows how to get past
Fluffy, aren’t you, Hagrid?” said Harry anxiously.

“And you wouldn’t tell anyone, would you? Not even
one of the teachers?”

“Not a soul knows except me an’ Dumbledore,” said
Hagrid proudly.

“Well, that’s something,” Harry muttered to the
others. “Hagrid, can we have a window open? I’m
boiling.”

“Can’t, Harry, sorry,” said Hagrid. Harry noticed him
glance at the fire. Harry looked at it, too.

“Hagrid — what’s that?”

But he already knew what it was. In the very heart of
the fire, underneath the kettle, was a huge, black egg.

“Ah,” said Hagrid, fiddling nervously with his beard,
“That’s — er ...”

“Where did you get it, Hagrid?” said Ron, crouching
over the fire to get a closer look at the egg. “It must’ve
cost you a fortune.”



Page | 261 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Won it,” said Hagrid. “Las’ night. I was down in the
village havin’ a few drinks an’ got into a game o’ cards
with a stranger. Think he was quite glad ter get rid of
it, ter be honest.”

“But what are you going to do with it when it’s
hatched?” said Hermione.

“Well, I’ve bin doin’ some readin’,” said Hagrid, pulling
a large book from under his pillow. “Got this outta the
library — Dragon Breeding for Pleasure and Profit —
it’s a bit outta date, o’ course, but it’s all in here. Keep
the egg in the fire, ’cause their mothers breathe on
’em, see, an’ when it hatches, feed it on a bucket o’
brandy mixed with chicken blood every half hour. An’
see here — how ter recognize diff’rent eggs — what I
got there’s a Norwegian Ridge-back. They’re rare,
them.”

He looked very pleased with himself, but Hermione
didn’t.

“Hagrid, you live in a wooden house,” she said.

But Hagrid wasn’t listening. He was humming merrily
as he stoked the fire.

So now they had something else to worry about: what
might happen to Hagrid if anyone found out he was
hiding an illegal dragon in his hut.

“Wonder what it’s like to have a peaceful life,” Ron
sighed, as evening after evening they struggled
through all the extra homework they were getting.
Hermione had now started making study schedules
for Harry and Ron, too. It was driving them nuts.



Page | 262 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




Then, one breakfast time, Hedwig brought Harry
another note from Hagrid. He had written only two
words: It’s hatching.

Ron wanted to skip Herbology and go straight down to
the hut. Hermione wouldn’t hear of it.

“Hermione, how many times in our lives are we going
to see a dragon hatching?”

“We’ve got lessons, we’ll get into trouble, and that’s
nothing to what Hagrid ’s going to be in when someone
finds out what he’s doing — ”

“Shut up!” Harry whispered.

Malfoy was only a few feet away and he had stopped
dead to listen. How much had he heard? Harry didn’t
like the look on Malfoy’s face at all.

Ron and Hermione argued all the way to Herbology
and in the end, Hermione agreed to run down to
Hagrid’s with the other two during morning break.
When the bell sounded from the castle at the end of
their lesson, the three of them dropped their trowels
at once and hurried through the grounds to the edge
of the forest. Hagrid greeted them, looking flushed
and excited.

“It’s nearly out.” He ushered them inside.

The egg was lying on the table. There were deep
cracks in it. Something was moving inside; a funny
clicking noise was coming from it.

They all drew their chairs up to the table and watched
with bated breath.



Page | 263 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




All at once there was a scraping noise and the egg
split open. The baby dragon flopped onto the table. It
wasn’t exactly pretty; Harry thought it looked like a
crumpled, black umbrella. Its spiny wings were huge
compared to its skinny jet body, it had a long snout
with wide nostrils, the stubs of horns and bulging,
orange eyes.

It sneezed. A couple of sparks flew out of its snout.

“Isn’t he beautiful?” Hagrid murmured. He reached
out a hand to stroke the dragon’s head. It snapped at
his fingers, showing pointed fangs.

“Bless him, look, he knows his mommy!” said Hagrid.

“Hagrid,” said Hermione, “how fast do Norwegian
Ridgebacks grow, exactly?”

Hagrid was about to answer when the color suddenly
drained from his face — he leapt to his feet and ran to
the window.

“What’s the matter?”

“Someone was lookin’ through the gap in the curtains
— it’s a kid — he’s runnin’ back up ter the school.”

Harry bolted to the door and looked out. Even at a
distance there was no mistaking him.

Malfoy had seen the dragon.

Something about the smile lurking on Malfoy’s face
during the next week made Harry, Ron, and Hermione
very nervous. They spent most of their free time in
Hagrid ’s darkened hut, trying to reason with him.

“Just let him go,” Harry urged. “Set him free.”

Page | 264 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“I can’t,” said Hagrid. “He’s too little. He’d die.”



They looked at the dragon. It had grown three times
in length in just a week. Smoke kept furling out of its
nostrils. Hagrid hadn’t been doing his gamekeeping
duties because the dragon was keeping him so busy.
There were empty brandy bottles and chicken
feathers all over the floor.

“I’ve decided to call him Norbert,” said Hagrid, looking
at the dragon with misty eyes. “He really knows me
now, watch. Norbert! Norbert! Where’s Mommy?”

“He’s lost his marbles,” Ron muttered in Harry’s ear.

“Hagrid,” said Harry loudly, “give it two weeks and
Norbert’s going to be as long as your house. Malfoy
could go to Dumbledore at any moment.”

Hagrid bit his lip.

“I — I know I can’t keep him forever, but I can’t jus’
dump him, can’t.”

Harry suddenly turned to Ron.

“Charlie,” he said.

“You’re losing it, too,” said Ron. “I’m Ron, remember?”

“No — Charlie — your brother, Charlie. In Romania.
Studying dragons. We could send Norbert to him.
Charlie can take care of him and then put him back
in the wild!”

“Brilliant!” said Ron. “How about it, Hagrid?”

And in the end, Hagrid agreed that they could send
an owl to Charlie to ask him.

Page | 265 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




The following week dragged by. Wednesday night
found Hermione and Harry sitting alone in the
common room, long after everyone else had gone to
bed. The clock on the wall had just chimed midnight
when the portrait hole burst open. Ron appeared out
of nowhere as he pulled off Harry’s Invisibility Cloak.
He had been down at Hagrid’s hut, helping him feed
Norbert, who was now eating dead rats by the crate.

“It bit me!” he said, showing them his hand, which
was wrapped in a bloody handkerchief. “I’m not going
to be able to hold a quill for a week. I tell you, that
dragon’s the most horrible animal I’ve ever met, but
the way Hagrid goes on about it, you’d think it was a
fluffy little bunny rabbit. When it bit me he told me off
for frightening it. And when I left, he was singing it a
lullaby.”

There was a tap on the dark window.

“It’s Hedwig!” said Harry, hurrying to let her in. “She’ll
have Charlie’s answer!”

The three of them put their heads together to read the
note.

Dear Ron,

How are you? Thanks for the letter — I’d be glad to
take the Norwegian Ridgeback, but it won’t be easy
getting him here. I think the best thing will be to send
him over with some friends of mine who are coming to
visit me next week. Trouble is, they mustn’t be seen
carrying an illegal dragon.

Could you get the Ridgeback up the tallest tower at
midnight on Saturday? They can meet you there and
take him away while it’s still dark.



Page | 266 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




Send me an answer as soon as possible.



Love,

Charlie

They looked at one another.

“We’ve got the Invisibility Cloak,” said Harry. “It
shouldn’t be too difficult — I think the cloak’s big
enough to cover two of us and Norbert.”

It was a mark of how bad the last week had been that
the other two agreed with him. Anything to get rid of
Norbert — and Malfoy.

There was a hitch. By the next morning, Ron’s bitten
hand had swollen to twice its usual size. He didn’t
know whether it was safe to go to Madam Pomfrey —
would she recognize a dragon bite? By the afternoon,
though, he had no choice. The cut had turned a nasty
shade of green. It looked as if Norbert’s fangs were
poisonous.

Harry and Hermione rushed up to the hospital wing
at the end of the day to find Ron in a terrible state in
bed.

“It’s not just my hand,” he whispered, “although that
feels like it’s about to fall off. Malfoy told Madam
Pomfrey he wanted to borrow one of my books so he
could come and have a good laugh at me. He kept
threatening to tell her what really bit me — I’ve told
her it was a dog, but I don’t think she believes me — I
shouldn’t have hit him at the Quidditch match, that’s
why he’s doing this.”

Harry and Hermione tried to calm Ron down.

Page | 267 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“It’ll all be over at midnight on Saturday,” said
Hermione, but this didn’t soothe Ron at all. On the
contrary, he sat bolt upright and broke into a sweat.

“Midnight on Saturday!” he said in a hoarse voice.

“Oh no — oh no — I’ve just remembered — Charlie’s
letter was in that book Malfoy took, he’s going to
know we’re getting rid of Norbert.”

Harry and Hermione didn’t get a chance to answer.
Madam Pomfrey came over at that moment and made
them leave, saying Ron needed sleep.

“It’s too late to change the plan now,” Harry told
Hermione. “We haven’t got time to send Charlie
another owl, and this could be our only chance to get
rid of Norbert. We’ll have to risk it. And we have got
the Invisibility Cloak, Malfoy doesn’t know about
that.”

They found Fang the boarhound sitting outside with a
bandaged tail when they went to tell Hagrid, who
opened a window to talk to them.

“I won’t let you in,” he puffed. “Norbert’s at a tricky
stage — nothin’ I can’t handle.”

When they told him about Charlie’s letter, his eyes
filled with tears, although that might have been
because Norbert had just bitten him on the leg.

“Aargh! It’s all right, he only got my boot — jus’
playin’ — he’s only a baby, after all.”

The baby banged its tail on the wall, making the
windows rattle. Harry and Hermione walked back to
the castle feeling Saturday couldn’t come quickly
enough.



Page | 268 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




They would have felt sorry for Hagrid when the time
came for him to say good-bye to Norbert if they hadn’t
been so worried about what they had to do. It was a
very dark, cloudy night, and they were a bit late
arriving at Hagrid ’s hut because they’d had to wait for
Peeves to get out of their way in the entrance hall,
where he’d been playing tennis against the wall.

Hagrid had Norbert packed and ready in a large crate.

“He’s got lots o’ rats an’ some brandy fer the journey,”
said Hagrid in a muffled voice. “An’ I’ve packed his
teddy bear in case he gets lonely.”

From inside the crate came ripping noises that
sounded to Harry as though the teddy was having his
head torn off.

“Bye-bye, Norbert!” Hagrid sobbed, as Harry and
Hermione covered the crate with the Invisibility Cloak
and stepped underneath it themselves. “Mommy will
never forget you!”

How they managed to get the crate back up to the
castle, they never knew. Midnight ticked nearer as
they heaved Norbert up the marble staircase in the
entrance hall and along the dark corridors. Up
another staircase, then another — even one of Harry’s
shortcuts didn’t make the work much easier.

“Nearly there!” Harry panted as they reached the
corridor beneath the tallest tower.

Then a sudden movement ahead of them made them
almost drop the crate. Forgetting that they were
already invisible, they shrank into the shadows,
staring at the dark outlines of two people grappling
with each other ten feet away. A lamp flared.



Page | 269 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




Professor McGonagall, in a tartan bathrobe and a hair
net, had Malfoy by the ear.



“Detention!” she shouted. “And twenty points from
Slytherin! Wandering around in the middle of the
night, how dare you — ”

“You don’t understand, Professor. Harry Potter’s
coming — he’s got a dragon!”

“What utter rubbish! How dare you tell such lies!
Come on — I shall see Professor Snape about you,
Malfoy!”

The steep spiral staircase up to the top of the tower
seemed the easiest thing in the world after that. Not
until they’d stepped out into the cold night air did
they throw off the cloak, glad to be able to breathe
properly again. Hermione did a sort of jig.

“Malfoy’s got detention! I could sing!”

“Don’t,” Harry advised her.

Chuckling about Malfoy, they waited, Norbert
thrashing about in his crate. About ten minutes later,
four broomsticks came swooping down out of the
darkness.

Charlie’s friends were a cheery lot. They showed
Harry and Hermione the harness they’d rigged up, so
they could suspend Norbert between them. They all
helped buckle Norbert safely into it and then Harry
and Hermione shook hands with the others and
thanked them very much.

At last, Norbert was going ... going ... gone.



Page | 270 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




They slipped back down the spiral staircase, their
hearts as light as their hands, now that Norbert was
off them. No more dragon — Malfoy in detention —
what could spoil their happiness?

The answer to that was waiting at the foot of the
stairs. As they stepped into the corridor, Filch’s face
loomed suddenly out of the darkness.

“Well, well, well,” he whispered, “we are in trouble.”

They’d left the Invisibility Cloak on top of the tower.



Page | 271 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling








THE FORBIDDEN FOREST

Things couldn’t have been worse.

Filch took them down to Professor McGonagall’s
study on the first floor, where they sat and waited
without saying a word to each other. Hermione was
trembling. Excuses, alibis, and wild cover-up stories
chased each other around Harry’s brain, each more
feeble than the last. He couldn’t see how they were
going to get out of trouble this time. They were
cornered. How could they have been so stupid as to
forget the cloak? There was no reason on earth that
Professor McGonagall would accept for their being out
of bed and creeping around the school in the dead of
night, let alone being up the tallest Astronomy Tower,
which was out-of-bounds except for classes. Add
Norbert and the Invisibility Cloak, and they might as
well be packing their bags already.

Had Harry thought that things couldn’t have been
worse? He was wrong. When Professor McGonagall
appeared, she was leading Neville.



Page | 272 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling



“Harry!” Neville burst out, the moment he saw the
other two. “I was trying to find you to warn you, I
heard Malfoy saying he was going to catch you, he
said you had a drag — ”

Harry shook his head violently to shut Neville up, but
Professor McGonagall had seen. She looked more
likely to breathe fire than Norbert as she towered over
the three of them.

“I would never have believed it of any of you. Mr. Filch
says you were up in the Astronomy Tower. It’s one
o’clock in the morning. Explain yourselves.”

It was the first time Hermione had ever failed to
answer a teacher’s question. She was staring at her
slippers, as still as a statue.

“I think I’ve got a good idea of what’s been going on,”
said Professor McGonagall. “It doesn’t take a genius
to work it out. You fed Draco Malfoy some cock-and-
bull story about a dragon, trying to get him out of bed
and into trouble. I’ve already caught him. I suppose
you think it’s funny that Longbottom here heard the
story and believed it, too?”

Harry caught Neville’s eye and tried to tell him
without words that this wasn’t true, because Neville
was looking stunned and hurt. Poor, blundering
Neville — Harry knew what it must have cost him to
try and find them in the dark, to warn them.

“I’m disgusted,” said Professor McGonagall. “Four
students out of bed in one night! I’ve never heard of
such a thing before! You, Miss Granger, I thought you
had more sense. As for you, Mr. Potter, I thought
Gryffindor meant more to you than this. All three of
you will receive detentions — yes, you too, Mr.
Longbottom, nothing gives you the right to walk
Page | 273 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




around school at night, especially these days, it’s very
dangerous — and fifty points will be taken from
Gryffindor.”

“Fifty?” Harry gasped — they would lose the lead, the
lead he’d won in the last Quidditch match.

“Fifty points each,” said Professor McGonagall,
breathing heavily through her long, pointed nose.

“Professor — please — ”

“You can’t—”

“Don’t tell me what I can and can’t do, Potter. Now get
back to bed, all of you. I’ve never been more ashamed
of Gryffindor students.”

A hundred and fifty points lost. That put Gryffindor in
last place. In one night, they’d ruined any chance
Gryffindor had had for the House Cup. Harry felt as
though the bottom had dropped out of his stomach.
How could they ever make up for this?

Harry didn’t sleep all night. He could hear Neville
sobbing into his pillow for what seemed like hours.
Harry couldn’t think of anything to say to comfort
him. He knew Neville, like himself, was dreading the
dawn. What would happen when the rest of
Gryffindor found out what they’d done?

At first, Gryffindors passing the giant hourglasses
that recorded the House points the next day thought
there ’d been a mistake. How could they suddenly
have a hundred and fifty points fewer than yesterday?
And then the story started to spread: Harry Potter,
the famous Harry Potter, their hero of two Quidditch
matches, had lost them all those points, him and a
couple of other stupid first years.

Page | 274 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




From being one of the most popular and admired
people at the school, Harry was suddenly the most
hated. Even Ravenclaws and Hufflepuffs turned on
him, because everyone had been longing to see
Slytherin lose the House Cup. Everywhere Harry
went, people pointed and didn’t trouble to lower their
voices as they insulted him. Slytherins, on the other
hand, clapped as he walked past them, whistling and
cheering, “Thanks Potter, we owe you one!”

Only Ron stood by him.

“They’ll all forget this in a few weeks. Fred and George
have lost loads of points in all the time they’ve been
here, and people still like them.”

“They’ve never lost a hundred and fifty points in one
go, though, have they?” said Harry miserably.

“Well — no,” Ron admitted.

It was a bit late to repair the damage, but Harry
swore to himself not to meddle in things that weren’t
his business from now on. He’d had it with sneaking
around and spying. He felt so ashamed of himself that
he went to Wood and offered to resign from the
Quidditch team.

“Resign?” Wood thundered. “What good’ll that do?

How are we going to get any points back if we can’t
win at Quidditch?”

But even Quidditch had lost its fun. The rest of the
team wouldn’t speak to Harry during practice, and if
they had to speak about him, they called him “the
Seeker.”

Hermione and Neville were suffering, too. They didn’t
have as bad a time as Harry, because they weren’t as

Page | 275 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




well-known, but nobody would speak to them, either.
Hermione had stopped drawing attention to herself in
class, keeping her head down and working in silence.

Harry was almost glad that the exams weren’t far
away. All the studying he had to do kept his mind off
his misery. He, Ron, and Hermione kept to
themselves, working late into the night, trying to
remember the ingredients in complicated potions,
learn charms and spells by heart, memorize the dates
of magical discoveries and goblin rebellions. ...

Then, about a week before the exams were due to
start, Harry’s new resolution not to interfere in
anything that didn’t concern him was put to an
unexpected test. Walking back from the library on his
own one afternoon, he heard somebody whimpering
from a classroom up ahead. As he drew closer, he
heard Quirrell’s voice.

“No — no — not again, please — ”

It sounded as though someone was threatening him.
Harry moved closer.

“All right — all right — ” he heard Quirrell sob.

Next second, Quirrell came hurrying out of the
classroom straightening his turban. He was pale and
looked as though he was about to cry. He strode out
of sight; Harry didn’t think Quirrell had even noticed
him. He waited until Quirrell’s footsteps had
disappeared, then peered into the classroom. It was
empty, but a door stood ajar at the other end. Harry
was halfway toward it before he remembered what
he’d promised himself about not meddling.

All the same, he’d have gambled twelve Sorcerer’s
Stones that Snape had just left the room, and from

Page | 276 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




what Harry had just heard, Snape would be walking
with a new spring in his step — Quirrell seemed to
have given in at last.

Harry went back to the library, where Hermione was
testing Ron on Astronomy. Harry told them what he’d
heard.

“Snape’s done it, then!” said Ron. “If Quirrell’s told
him how to break his Anti-Dark Force spell — ”

“There’s still Fluffy, though,” said Hermione.

“Maybe Snape’s found out how to get past him
without asking Hagrid,” said Ron, looking up at the
thousands of books surrounding them. “I bet there’s a
book somewhere in here telling you how to get past a
giant three-headed dog. So what do we do, Harry?”

The light of adventure was kindling again in Ron’s
eyes, but Hermione answered before Harry could.

“Go to Dumbledore. That’s what we should have done
ages ago. If we try anything ourselves we’ll be thrown
out for sure.”

“But we’ve got no proof.” said Harry. “Quirrell’s too
scared to back us up. Snape’s only got to say he
doesn’t know how the troll got in at Halloween and
that he was nowhere near the third floor — who do
you think they’ll believe, him or us? It’s not exactly a
secret we hate him, Dumbledore ’ll think we made it
up to get him sacked. Filch wouldn’t help us if his life
depended on it, he’s too friendly with Snape, and the
more students get thrown out, the better, he’ll think.
And don’t forget, we’re not supposed to know about
the Stone or Fluffy. That’ll take a lot of explaining.”

Hermione looked convinced, but Ron didn’t.

Page | 277 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“If we just do a bit of poking around — ”



“No,” said Harry flatly, “we’ve done enough poking
around.”

He pulled a map of Jupiter toward him and started to
learn the names of its moons.

The following morning, notes were delivered to Harry,
Hermione, and Neville at the breakfast table. They
were all the same:

Your detention will take place at eleven o’clock
tonight.

Meet Mr. Filch in the entrance hall.

Professor M. McGonagall

Harry had forgotten they still had detentions to do in
the furor over the points they’d lost. He half expected
Hermione to complain that this was a whole night of
studying lost, but she didn’t say a word. Like Harry,
she felt they deserved what they’d got.

At eleven o’clock that night, they said good-bye to Ron
in the common room and went down to the entrance
hall with Neville. Filch was already there — and so
was Malfoy. Harry had also forgotten that Malfoy had
gotten a detention, too.

“Follow me,” said Filch, lighting a lamp and leading
them outside.

“I bet you’ll think twice about breaking a school rule
again, won’t you, eh?” he said, leering at them. “Oh
yes . . . hard work and pain are the best teachers if you
ask me. ... It’s just a pity they let the old
punishments die out . . . hang you by your wrists from
Page | 278 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




the ceiling for a few days, I’ve got the chains still in
my office, keep ’em well oiled in case they’re ever
needed. ... Right, off we go, and don’t think of running
off, now, it’ll be worse for you if you do.”

They marched off across the dark grounds. Neville
kept sniffing. Harry wondered what their punishment
was going to be. It must be something really horrible,
or Filch wouldn’t be sounding so delighted.

The moon was bright, but clouds scudding across it
kept throwing them into darkness. Ahead, Harry
could see the lighted windows of Hagrid’s hut. Then
they heard a distant shout.

“Is that you, Filch? Hurry up, I want ter get started.”

Harry’s heart rose; if they were going to be working
with Hagrid it wouldn’t be so bad. His relief must
have showed in his face, because Filch said, “I
suppose you think you’ll be enjoying yourself with
that oaf? Well, think again, boy — it’s into the forest
you’re going and I’m much mistaken if you’ll all come
out in one piece.”

At this, Neville let out a little moan, and Malfoy
stopped dead in his tracks.

“The forest?” he repeated, and he didn’t sound quite
as cool as usual. “We can’t go in there at night —
there’s all sorts of things in there — werewolves, I
heard.”

Neville clutched the sleeve of Harry’s robe and made a
choking noise.

“That’s your problem, isn’t it?” said Filch, his voice
cracking with glee. “Should’ve thought of them
werewolves before you got in trouble, shouldn’t you?”

Page | 279 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




Hagrid came striding toward them out of the dark,
Fang at his heel. He was carrying his large crossbow,
and a quiver of arrows hung over his shoulder.

“Abou’ time,” he said. “I bin waitin’ fer half an hour
already. All right, Harry, Hermione?”

“I shouldn’t be too friendly to them, Hagrid,” said
Filch coldly, “they’re here to be punished, after all.”

“That’s why yer late, is it?” said Hagrid, frowning at
Filch. “Bin lecturin’ them, eh? ’Snot your place ter do
that. Yeh’ve done yer bit, I’ll take over from here.”

“I’ll be back at dawn,” said Filch, “for what’s left of
them,” he added nastily, and he turned and started
back toward the castle, his lamp bobbing away in the
darkness.

Malfoy now turned to Hagrid.

“I’m not going in that forest,” he said, and Harry was
pleased to hear the note of panic in his voice.

“Yeh are if yeh want ter stay at Hogwarts,” said
Hagrid fiercely. “Yeh’ve done wrong an’ now yeh’ve got
ter pay fer it.”

“But this is servant stuff, it’s not for students to do. I
thought we’d be copying lines or something, if my
father knew I was doing this, he’d — ”

“ — tell yer that’s how it is at Hogwarts,” Hagrid
growled. “Copyin’ lines! What good’s that ter anyone?
Yeh’ll do summat useful or yeh’ll get out. If yeh think
yer father’d rather you were expelled, then get back
off ter the castle an’ pack. Go on!”



Page | 280 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




Malfoy didn’t move. He looked at Hagrid furiously, but
then dropped his gaze.

“Right then,” said Hagrid, “now, listen carefully,

’cause it’s dangerous what we’re gonna do tonight, an’
I don’ want no one takin’ risks. Follow me over here a
moment.”

He led them to the very edge of the forest. Holding his
lamp up high, he pointed down a narrow, winding
earth track that disappeared into the thick black
trees. A light breeze lifted their hair as they looked
into the forest.

“Look there,” said Hagrid, “see that stuff shinin’ on
the ground? Silvery stuff? That’s unicorn blood.
There’s a unicorn in there bin hurt badly by summat.
This is the second time in a week. I found one dead
last Wednesday. We’re gonna try an’ find the poor
thing. We might have ter put it out of its misery.”

“And what if whatever hurt the unicorn finds us
first?” said Malfoy, unable to keep the fear out of his
voice.

“There’s nothin’ that lives in the forest that’ll hurt yeh
if yer with me or Fang,” said Hagrid. “An’ keep ter the
path. Right, now, we’re gonna split inter two parties
an’ follow the trail in diff’rent directions. There’s blood
all over the place, it must’ve bin staggerin’ around
since last night at least.”

“I want Fang,” said Malfoy quickly, looking at Fang’s
long teeth.

“All right, but I warn yeh, he’s a coward,” said Hagrid.
“So me, Harry, an’ Hermione’ll go one way an’ Draco,
Neville, an’ Fang’ll go the other. Now, if any of us
finds the unicorn, we’ll send up green sparks, right?

Page | 281 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




Get yer wands out an’ practice now — that’s it — an’
if anyone gets in trouble, send up red sparks, an’ we’ll
all come an’ find yeh — so, be careful — let’s go.”

The forest was black and silent. A little way into it
they reached a fork in the earth path, and Harry,
Hermione, and Hagrid took the left path while Malfoy,
Neville, and Fang took the right.

They walked in silence, their eyes on the ground.
Every now and then a ray of moonlight through the
branches above lit a spot of silver-blue blood on the
fallen leaves.

Harry saw that Hagrid looked very worried.

“ Could a werewolf be killing the unicorns?” Harry
asked.

“Not fast enough,” said Hagrid. “It’s not easy ter catch
a unicorn, they’re powerful magic creatures. I never
knew one ter be hurt before.”

They walked past a mossy tree stump. Harry could
hear running water; there must be a stream
somewhere close by. There were still spots of unicorn
blood here and there along the winding path.

“You all right, Hermione?” Hagrid whispered. “Don’
worry, it can’t’ve gone far if it’s this badly hurt, an’
then well be able ter — GET BEHIND THAT TREE!”

Hagrid seized Harry and Hermione and hoisted them
off the path behind a towering oak. He pulled out an
arrow and fitted it into his crossbow, raising it, ready
to fire. The three of them listened. Something was
slithering over dead leaves nearby: it sounded like a
cloak trailing along the ground. Hagrid was squinting



Page | 282 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




up the dark path, but after a few seconds, the sound
faded away.

“I knew it,” he murmured. “There’s summat in here
that shouldn’ be.”

“A werewolf?” Harry suggested.

“That wasn’ no werewolf an’ it wasn’ no unicorn,
neither,” said Hagrid grimly. “Right, follow me, but
careful, now.”

They walked more slowly, ears straining for the
faintest sound. Suddenly, in a clearing ahead,
something definitely moved.

“Who’s there?” Hagrid called. “Show yerself — I’m
armed!”

And into the clearing came — was it a man, or a
horse? To the waist, a man, with red hair and beard,
but below that was a horse’s gleaming chestnut body
with a long, reddish tail. Harry and Hermione’s jaws
dropped.

“Oh, it’s you, Ronan,” said Hagrid in relief. “How are
yeh?”

He walked forward and shook the centaur’s hand.

“Good evening to you, Hagrid,” said Ronan. He had a
deep, sorrowful voice. “Were you going to shoot me?”

“Can’t be too careful, Ronan,” said Hagrid, patting his
crossbow. “There’s summat bad loose in this forest.
This is Harry Potter an’ Hermione Granger, by the
way. Students up at the school. An’ this is Ronan,
you two. He’s a centaur.”



Page | 283 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“We’d noticed,” said Hermione faintly.



“Good evening,” said Ronan. “Students, are you? And
do you learn much, up at the school?”

“Erm — ”

“A bit,” said Hermione timidly.

“A bit. Well, that’s something.” Ronan sighed. He
flung back his head and stared at the sky. “Mars is
bright tonight.”

“Yeah,” said Hagrid, glancing up, too. “Listen, I’m glad
we’ve run inter yeh, Ronan, ’cause there’s a unicorn
bin hurt — you seen anythin’?”

Ronan didn’t answer immediately. He stared
unblinkingly upward, then sighed again.

“Always the innocent are the first victims,” he said.

“So it has been for ages past, so it is now.”

“Yeah,” said Hagrid, “but have yeh seen anythin’,
Ronan? Anythin’ unusual?”

“Mars is bright tonight,” Ronan repeated, while
Hagrid watched him impatiently. “Unusually bright.”

“Yeah, but I was meanin’ anythin’ unusual a bit
nearer home,” said Hagrid. “So yeh haven’t noticed
anythin’ strange?”

Yet again, Ronan took a while to answer. At last, he
said, “The forest hides many secrets.”

A movement in the trees behind Ronan made Hagrid
raise his bow again, but it was only a second centaur,

Page | 284 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




black-haired and -bodied and wilder-looking than
Ronan.



“Hullo, Bane,” said Hagrid. “All right?”

“Good evening, Hagrid, I hope you are well?”

“Well enough. Look, I’ve jus’ bin askin’ Ronan, you
seen anythin’ odd in here lately? There’s a unicorn
bin injured — would yeh know anythin’ about it?”

Bane walked over to stand next to Ronan. He looked
skyward.

“Mars is bright tonight,” he said simply.

“We’ve heard,” said Hagrid grumpily. “Well, if either of
you do see anythin’, let me know, won’t yeh? We’ll be
off, then.”

Harry and Hermione followed him out of the clearing,
staring over their shoulders at Ronan and Bane until
the trees blocked their view.

“Never,” said Hagrid irritably, “try an’ get a straight
answer out of a centaur. Ruddy stargazers. Not
interested in anythin’ closer’n the moon.”

“Are there many of them in here?” asked Hermione.

“Oh, a fair few. . . . Keep themselves to themselves
mostly, but they’re good enough about turnin’ up if
ever I want a word. They’re deep, mind, centaurs ...
they know things ... jus’ don’ let on much.”

“D’you think that was a centaur we heard earlier?”
said Harry.



Page | 285 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Did that sound like hooves to you? Nah, if yeh ask
me, that was what’s bin killin’ the unicorns — never
heard anythin’ like it before.”

They walked on through the dense, dark trees. Harry
kept looking nervously over his shoulder. He had the
nasty feeling they were being watched. He was very
glad they had Hagrid and his crossbow with them.
They had just passed a bend in the path when
Hermione grabbed Hagrid ’s arm.

“Hagrid! Look! Red sparks, the others are in trouble!”

“You two wait here!” Hagrid shouted. “Stay on the
path, I’ll come back for yeh!”

They heard him crashing away through the
undergrowth and stood looking at each other, very
scared, until they couldn’t hear anything but the
rustling of leaves around them.

“You don’t think they’ve been hurt, do you?”
whispered Hermione.

“I don’t care if Malfoy has, but if something’s got
Neville ... it’s our fault he’s here in the first place.”

The minutes dragged by. Their ears seemed sharper
than usual. Harry’s seemed to be picking up every
sigh of the wind, every cracking twig. What was going
on? Where were the others?

At last, a great crunching noise announced Hagrid’s
return. Malfoy, Neville, and Fang were with him.
Hagrid was fuming. Malfoy, it seemed, had sneaked
up behind Neville and grabbed him as a joke. Neville
had panicked and sent up the sparks.



Page | 286 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Well be lucky ter catch anythin’ now, with the racket
you two were makin’. Right, we’re changin’ groups —
Neville, you stay with me an’ Hermione, Harry, you go
with Fang an’ this idiot. I’m sorry,” Hagrid added in a
whisper to Harry, “but he’ll have a harder time
frightenin’ you, an’ we’ve gotta get this done.”

So Harry set off into the heart of the forest with
Malfoy and Fang. They walked for nearly half an
hour, deeper and deeper into the forest, until the path
became almost impossible to follow because the trees
were so thick. Harry thought the blood seemed to be
getting thicker. There were splashes on the roots of a
tree, as though the poor creature had been thrashing
around in pain close by. Harry could see a clearing
ahead, through the tangled branches of an ancient
oak.

“Look — ” he murmured, holding out his arm to stop
Malfoy.

Something bright white was gleaming on the ground.
They inched closer.

It was the unicorn all right, and it was dead. Harry
had never seen anything so beautiful and sad. Its
long, slender legs were stuck out at odd angles where
it had fallen and its mane was spread pearly-white on
the dark leaves.

Harry had taken one step toward it when a slithering
sound made him freeze where he stood. A bush on
the edge of the clearing quivered. ... Then, out of the
shadows, a hooded figure came crawling across the
ground like some stalking beast. Harry, Malfoy, and
Fang stood transfixed. The cloaked figure reached the
unicorn, lowered its head over the wound in the
animals side, and began to drink its blood.



Page | 287 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“AAAAAAAAAAARGH ! ”



Malfoy let out a terrible scream and bolted — so did
Fang. The hooded figure raised its head and looked
right at Harry — unicorn blood was dribbling down its
front. It got to its feet and came swiftly toward Harry
— he couldn’t move for fear.

Then a pain like he’d never felt before pierced his
head; it was as though his scar were on fire. Half
blinded, he staggered backward. He heard hooves
behind him, galloping, and something jumped clean
over Harry, charging at the figure.

The pain in Harry’s head was so bad he fell to his
knees. It took a minute or two to pass. When he
looked up, the figure had gone. A centaur was
standing over him, not Ronan or Bane; this one
looked younger; he had white-blond hair and a
palomino body.

“Are you all right?” said the centaur, pulling Harry to
his feet.

“Yes — thank you — what was that?”

The centaur didn’t answer. He had astonishingly blue
eyes, like pale sapphires. He looked carefully at
Harry, his eyes lingering on the scar that stood out,
livid, on Harry’s forehead.

“You are the Potter boy,” he said. “You had better get
back to Hagrid. The forest is not safe at this time —
especially for you. Can you ride? It will be quicker
this way.

“My name is Firenze,” he added, as he lowered
himself on to his front legs so that Harry could
clamber onto his back.

Page | 288 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




There was suddenly a sound of more galloping from
the other side of the clearing. Ronan and Bane came
bursting through the trees, their flanks heaving and
sweaty.

“Firenze!” Bane thundered. “What are you doing? You
have a human on your back! Have you no shame? Are
you a common mule?”

“Do you realize who this is?” said Firenze. “This is the
Potter boy. The quicker he leaves this forest, the
better.”

“What have you been telling him?” growled Bane.
“Remember, Firenze, we are sworn not to set
ourselves against the heavens. Have we not read what
is to come in the movements of the planets?”

Ronan pawed the ground nervously. “I’m sure Firenze
thought he was acting for the best,” he said in his
gloomy voice.

Bane kicked his back legs in anger.

“For the best! What is that to do with us? Centaurs
are concerned with what has been foretold! It is not
our business to run around like donkeys after stray
humans in our forest!”

Firenze suddenly reared on to his hind legs in anger,
so that Harry had to grab his shoulders to stay on.

“Do you not see that unicorn?” Firenze bellowed at
Bane. “Do you not understand why it was killed? Or
have the planets not let you in on that secret? I set
myself against what is lurking in this forest, Bane,
yes, with humans alongside me if I must.”



Page | 289 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




And Firenze whisked around; with Harry clutching on
as best he could, they plunged off into the trees,
leaving Ronan and Bane behind them.

Harry didn’t have a clue what was going on.

“Why’s Bane so angry?” he asked. “What was that
thing you saved me from, anyway?”

Firenze slowed to a walk, warned Harry to keep his
head bowed in case of low-hanging branches, but did
not answer Harry’s question. They made their way
through the trees in silence for so long that Harry
thought Firenze didn’t want to talk to him anymore.
They were passing through a particularly dense patch
of trees, however, when Firenze suddenly stopped.

“Harry Potter, do you know what unicorn blood is
used for?”

“No,” said Harry, startled by the odd question. “We’ve
only used the horn and tail hair in Potions.”

“That is because it is a monstrous thing, to slay a
unicorn,” said Firenze. “Only one who has nothing to
lose, and everything to gain, would commit such a
crime. The blood of a unicorn will keep you alive, even
if you are an inch from death, but at a terrible price.
You have slain something pure and defenseless to
save yourself, and you will have but a half-life, a
cursed life, from the moment the blood touches your
lips.”

Harry stared at the back of Firenze’s head, which was
dappled silver in the moonlight.

“But who’d be that desperate?” he wondered aloud. “If
you’re going to be cursed forever, death’s better, isn’t
it?”

Page | 290 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“It is,” Firenze agreed, “unless all you need is to stay
alive long enough to drink something else —
something that will bring you back to full strength
and power — something that will mean you can never
die. Mr. Potter, do you know what is hidden in the
school at this very moment?”

“The Sorcerer’s Stone! Of course — the Elixir of Life!
But I don’t understand who — ”

“Can you think of nobody who has waited many years
to return to power, who has clung to life, awaiting
their chance?”

It was as though an iron fist had clenched suddenly
around Harry’s heart. Over the rustling of the trees,
he seemed to hear once more what Hagrid had told
him on the night they had met: “Some say he died.
Codswallop, in my opinion. Dunno if he had enough
human left in him to die.”

“Do you mean,” Harry croaked, “that was VoZ — ”

“Harry! Harry, are you all right?”

Hermione was running toward them down the path,
Hagrid puffing along behind her.

“I’m fine,” said Harry, hardly knowing what he was
saying. “The unicorn’s dead, Hagrid, it’s in that
clearing back there.”

“This is where I leave you,” Firenze murmured as
Hagrid hurried off to examine the unicorn. “You are
safe now.”

Harry slid off his back.



Page | 291 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Good luck, Harry Potter,” said Firenze. “The planets
have been read wrongly before now, even by centaurs.
I hope this is one of those times.”

He turned and cantered back into the depths of the
forest, leaving Harry shivering behind him.

Ron had fallen asleep in the dark common room,
waiting for them to return. He shouted something
about Quidditch fouls when Harry roughly shook him
awake. In a matter of seconds, though, he was wide-
eyed as Harry began to tell him and Hermione what
had happened in the forest.

Harry couldn’t sit down. He paced up and down in
front of the fire. He was still shaking.

“Snape wants the Stone for Voldemort ... and
Voldemort’s waiting in the forest ... and all this time
we thought Snape just wanted to get rich. ...”

“Stop saying the name!” said Ron in a terrified
whisper, as if he thought Voldemort could hear them.

Harry wasn’t listening.

“Firenze saved me, but he shouldn’t have done so. ...
Bane was furious ... he was talking about interfering
with what the planets say is going to happen. ... They
must show that Voldemort’s coming back. ... Bane
thinks Firenze should have let Voldemort kill me. ... I
suppose that’s written in the stars as well.”

“Will you stop saying the name\” Ron hissed.

“So all I’ve got to wait for now is Snape to steal the
Stone,” Harry went on feverishly, “then Voldemort will
be able to come and finish me off. ... Well, I suppose
Bane 11 be happy.”

Page | 292 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




Hermione looked very frightened, but she had a word
of comfort.

“Harry, everyone says Dumbledore’s the only one
You-Know-Who was ever afraid of. With Dumbledore
around, You-Know-Who won’t touch you. Anyway,
who says the centaurs are right? It sounds like
fortune-telling to me, and Professor McGonagall says
that’s a very imprecise branch of magic.”

The sky had turned light before they stopped talking.
They went to bed exhausted, their throats sore. But
the night’s surprises weren’t over.

When Harry pulled back his sheets, he found his
Invisibility Cloak folded neatly underneath them.
There was a note pinned to it:

Just in case.



Page | 293 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling






THROUGH THE TRAPDOOR

In years to come, Harry would never quite remember
how he had managed to get through his exams when
he half expected Voldemort to come bursting through
the door at any moment. Yet the days crept by, and
there could be no doubt that Fluffy was still alive and
well behind the locked door.

It was sweltering hot, especially in the large
classroom where they did their written papers. They
had been given special, new quills for the exams,
which had been bewitched with an Anti-Cheating
spell.

They had practical exams as well. Professor Flitwick
called them one by one into his class to see if they
could make a pineapple tap-dance across a desk.
Professor McGonagall watched them turn a mouse
into a snuffbox — points were given for how pretty the
snuffbox was, but taken away if it had whiskers.
Snape made them all nervous, breathing down their
necks while they tried to remember how to make a
Forgetfulness potion.

Page | 294 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling



Harry did the best he could, trying to ignore the
stabbing pains in his forehead, which had been
bothering him ever since his trip into the forest.
Neville thought Harry had a bad case of exam nerves
because Harry couldn’t sleep, but the truth was that
Harry kept being woken by his old nightmare, except
that it was now worse than ever because there was a
hooded figure dripping blood in it.

Maybe it was because they hadn’t seen what Harry
had seen in the forest, or because they didn’t have
scars burning on their foreheads, but Ron and
Hermione didn’t seem as worried about the Stone as
Harry. The idea of Voldemort certainly scared them,
but he didn’t keep visiting them in dreams, and they
were so busy with their studying they didn’t have
much time to fret about what Snape or anyone else
might be up to.

Their very last exam was History of Magic. One hour
of answering questions about batty old wizards who’d
invented self-stirring cauldrons and they’d be free,
free for a whole wonderful week until their exam
results came out. When the ghost of Professor Binns
told them to put down their quills and roll up their
parchment, Harry couldn’t help cheering with the
rest.

“That was far easier than I thought it would be,” said
Hermione as they joined the crowds flocking out onto
the sunny grounds. “I needn’t have learned about the
1637 Werewolf Code of Conduct or the uprising of
Elfric the Eager.”

Hermione always liked to go through their exam
papers afterward, but Ron said this made him feel ill,
so they wandered down to the lake and flopped under
a tree. The Weasley twins and Lee Jordan were



Page | 295 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




tickling the tentacles of a giant squid, which was
basking in the warm shallows.



“No more studying,” Ron sighed happily, stretching
out on the grass. “You could look more cheerful,

Harry, we’ve got a week before we find out how badly
we’ve done, there’s no need to worry yet.”

Harry was rubbing his forehead.

“I wish I knew what this means\” he burst out angrily.
“My scar keeps hurting — it’s happened before, but
never as often as this.”

“Go to Madam Pomfrey,” Hermione suggested.

“I’m not ill,” said Harry. “I think it’s a warning ... it
means danger’s coming. ...”

Ron couldn’t get worked up, it was too hot.

“Harry, relax, Hermione ’s right, the Stone’s safe as
long as Dumbledore’s around. Anyway, we’ve never
had any proof Snape found out how to get past Fluffy.
He nearly had his leg ripped off once, he’s not going to
try it again in a hurry. And Neville will play Quidditch
for England before Hagrid lets Dumbledore down.”

Harry nodded, but he couldn’t shake off a lurking
feeling that there was something he’d forgotten to do,
something important. When he tried to explain this,
Hermione said, “That’s just the exams. I woke up last
night and was halfway through my Transfiguration
notes before I remembered we’d done that one.”

Harry was quite sure the unsettled feeling didn’t have
anything to do with work, though. He watched an owl
flutter toward the school across the bright blue sky, a
note clamped in its mouth. Hagrid was the only one

Page | 296 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




who ever sent him letters. Hagrid would never betray
Dumbledore. Hagrid would never tell anyone how to
get past Fluffy . . . never . . . but —

Harry suddenly jumped to his feet.

“Where ’re you going?” said Ron sleepily.

“I’ve just thought of something,” said Harry. He had
turned white. “We’ve got to go and see Hagrid, now.”

“Why?” panted Hermione, hurrying to keep up.

“Don’t you think it’s a bit odd,” said Harry,
scrambling up the grassy slope, “that what Hagrid
wants more than anything else is a dragon, and a
stranger turns up who just happens to have an egg in
his pocket? How many people wander around with
dragon eggs if it’s against wizard law? Lucky they
found Hagrid, don’t you think? Why didn’t I see it
before?”

“What are you talking about?” said Ron, but Harry,
sprinting across the grounds toward the forest, didn’t
answer.

Hagrid was sitting in an armchair outside his house;
his trousers and sleeves were rolled up, and he was
shelling peas into a large bowl.

“Hullo,” he said, smiling. “Finished yer exams? Got
time fer a drink?”

“Yes, please,” said Ron, but Harry cut him off.

“No, we’re in a hurry. Hagrid, I’ve got to ask you
something. You know that night you won Norbert?
What did the stranger you were playing cards with
look like?”

Page | 297 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Dunno said Hagrid casually, “he wouldn’ take his
cloak off.”



He saw the three of them look stunned and raised his
eyebrows.

“It’s not that unusual, yeh get a lot o’ funny folk in
the Hog’s Head — that’s one o’ the pubs down in the
village. Mighta bin a dragon dealer, mightn’ he? I
never saw his face, he kept his hood up.”

Harry sank down next to the bowl of peas.

“What did you talk to him about, Hagrid? Did you
mention Hogwarts at all?”

“Mighta come up,” said Hagrid, frowning as he tried
to remember. “Yeah ... he asked what I did, an’ I told
him I was gamekeeper here. ... He asked a bit about
the sorta creatures I look after ... so I told him ... an’ I
said what I’d always really wanted was a dragon ...
an’ then ... I can’ remember too well, ’cause he kept
buyin’ me drinks. ... Let’s see ... yeah, then he said he
had the dragon egg an’ we could play cards fer it if I
wanted . . . but he had ter be sure I could handle it, he
didn’ want it ter go ter any old home. ... So I told him,
after Fluffy, a dragon would be easy. ...”

“And did he — did he seem interested in Fluffy?”

Harry asked, trying to keep his voice calm.

“Well — yeah — how many three-headed dogs d’yeh
meet, even around Hogwarts? So I told him, Fluffy’s a
piece o’ cake if yeh know how to calm him down, jus’
play him a bit o’ music an’ he’ll go straight off ter
sleep — ”

Hagrid suddenly looked horrified.

Page | 298 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“I shouldn’ta told yeh that!” he blurted out. “Forget I
said it! Hey — where’re yeh goin’?”

Harry, Ron, and Hermione didn’t speak to each other
at all until they came to a halt in the entrance hall,
which seemed very cold and gloomy after the
grounds.

“We’ve got to go to Dumbledore,” said Harry. “Hagrid
told that stranger how to get past Fluffy, and it was
either Snape or Voldemort under that cloak — it
must’ve been easy, once he’d got Hagrid drunk. I just
hope Dumbledore believes us. Firenze might back us
up if Bane doesn’t stop him. Where’s Dumbledore’s
office?”

They looked around, as if hoping to see a sign
pointing them in the right direction. They had never
been told where Dumbledore lived, nor did they know
anyone who had been sent to see him.

“Well just have to — ” Harry began, but a voice
suddenly rang across the hall.

“What are you three doing inside?”

It was Professor McGonagall, carrying a large pile of
books.

“We want to see Professor Dumbledore,” said
Hermione, rather bravely, Harry and Ron thought.

“See Professor Dumbledore?” Professor McGonagall
repeated, as though this was a very fishy thing to
want to do. “Why?”

Harry swallowed — now what?



Page | 299 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“It’s sort of secret,” he said, but he wished at once he
hadn’t, because Professor McGonagall’s nostrils
flared.

“Professor Dumbledore left ten minutes ago,” she said
coldly. “He received an urgent owl from the Ministry
of Magic and flew off for London at once.”

“He’s gone?” said Harry frantically. “Now?”

“Professor Dumbledore is a very great wizard, Potter,
he has many demands on his time — ”

“But this is important.”

“Something you have to say is more important than
the Ministry of Magic, Potter?”

“Look,” said Harry, throwing caution to the winds,
“Professor — it’s about the Sorcerer’s Stone — ”

Whatever Professor McGonagall had expected, it
wasn’t that. The books she was carrying tumbled out
of her arms, but she didn’t pick them up.

“How do you know — ?” she spluttered.

“Professor, I think — I know — that Sn — that
someone’s going to try and steal the Stone. I’ve got to
talk to Professor Dumbledore.”

She eyed him with a mixture of shock and suspicion.

“Professor Dumbledore will be back tomorrow,” she
said finally. “I don’t know how you found out about
the Stone, but rest assured, no one can possibly steal
it, it’s too well protected.”

“But Professor — ”

Page | 300 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Potter, I know what I’m talking about,” she said
shortly. She bent down and gathered up the fallen
books. “I suggest you all go back outside and enjoy
the sunshine.”

But they didn’t.

“It’s tonight,” said Harry, once he was sure Professor
McGonagall was out of earshot. “Snape’s going
through the trapdoor tonight. He’s found out
everything he needs, and now he’s got Dumbledore
out of the way. He sent that note, I bet the Ministry of
Magic will get a real shock when Dumbledore turns
up.”

“But what can we — ”

Hermione gasped. Harry and Ron wheeled round.
Snape was standing there.

“Good afternoon,” he said smoothly.

They stared at him.

“You shouldn’t be inside on a day like this,” he said,
with an odd, twisted smile.

“We were — ” Harry began, without any idea what he
was going to say.

“You want to be more careful,” said Snape. “Hanging
around like this, people will think you’re up to
something. And Gryffindor really can’t afford to lose
any more points, can it?”

Harry flushed. They turned to go outside, but Snape
called them back.



Page | 301 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Be warned, Potter — any more nighttime wanderings
and I will personally make sure you are expelled.

Good day to you.”

He strode off in the direction of the staffroom.

Out on the stone steps, Harry turned to the others.

“Right, here’s what we’ve got to do,” he whispered
urgently. “One of us has got to keep an eye on Snape
— wait outside the staffroom and follow him if he
leaves it. Hermione, you’d better do that.”

“Why me?”

“It’s obvious,” said Ron. “You can pretend to be
waiting for Professor Flitwick, you know.” He put on a
high voice, “ ‘Oh Professor Flitwick, I’m so worried, I
think I got question fourteen b wrong. . . . ’ ”

“Oh, shut up,” said Hermione, but she agreed to go
and watch out for Snape.

“And we’d better stay outside the third-floor corridor,”
Harry told Ron. “Come on.”

But that part of the plan didn’t work. No sooner had
they reached the door separating Fluffy from the rest
of the school than Professor McGonagall turned up
again and this time, she lost her temper.

“I suppose you think you’re harder to get past than a
pack of enchantments!” she stormed. “Enough of this
nonsense! If I hear you’ve come anywhere near here
again, I’ll take another fifty points from Gryffindor!

Yes, Weasley, from my own House!”

Harry and Ron went back to the common room. Harry
had just said, “At least Hermione’s on Snape’s tail,”

Page | 302 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




when the portrait of the Fat Lady swung open and
Hermione came in.

“I’m sorry, Harry!” she wailed. “Snape came out and
asked me what I was doing, so I said I was waiting for
Flitwick, and Snape went to get him, and I’ve only
just got away, I don’t know where Snape went.”

“Well, that’s it then, isn’t it?” Harry said.

The other two stared at him. He was pale and his eyes
were glittering.

“I’m going out of here tonight and I’m going to try and
get to the Stone first.”

“You’re mad!” said Ron.

“You can’t!” said Hermione. “After what McGonagall
and Snape have said? You’ll be expelled!”

“SO WHAT?” Harry shouted. “Don’t you understand?
If Snape gets hold of the Stone, Voldemort’s coming
back! Haven’t you heard what it was like when he was
trying to take over? There won’t be any Hogwarts to
get expelled from! He’ll flatten it, or turn it into a
school for the Dark Arts! Losing points doesn’t matter
anymore, can’t you see? D’you think he’ll leave you
and your families alone if Gryffindor wins the House
Cup? If I get caught before I can get to the Stone, well,
I’ll have to go back to the Dursleys and wait for
Voldemort to find me there, it’s only dying a bit later
than I would have, because I’m never going over to
the Dark Side! I’m going through that trapdoor
tonight and nothing you two say is going to stop me!
Voldemort killed my parents, remember?”

He glared at them.



Page | 303 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“You’re right, Harry,” said Hermione in a small voice.



“I’ll use the Invisibility Cloak,” said Harry. “It’s just
lucky I got it back.”

“But will it cover all three of us?” said Ron.

“All — all three of us?”

“Oh, come off it, you don’t think we’d let you go
alone?”

“Of course not,” said Hermione briskly. “How do you
think you’d get to the Stone without us? I’d better go
and look through my books, there might be
something useful. ...”

“But if we get caught, you two will be expelled, too.”

“Not if I can help it,” said Hermione grimly. “Flitwick
told me in secret that I got a hundred and twelve
percent on his exam. They’re not throwing me out
after that.”

After dinner the three of them sat nervously apart in
the common room. Nobody bothered them; none of
the Gryffindors had anything to say to Harry any
more, after all. This was the first night he hadn’t been
upset by it. Hermione was skimming through all her
notes, hoping to come across one of the
enchantments they were about to try to break. Harry
and Ron didn’t talk much. Both of them were
thinking about what they were about to do.

Slowly, the room emptied as people drifted off to bed.

“Better get the cloak,” Ron muttered, as Lee Jordan
finally left, stretching and yawning. Harry ran
upstairs to their dark dormitory. He pulled out the

Page | 304 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




cloak and then his eyes fell on the flute Hagrid had
given him for Christmas. He pocketed it to use on
Fluffy — he didn’t feel much like singing.

He ran back down to the common room.

“We’d better put the cloak on here, and make sure it
covers all three of us — if Filch spots one of our feet
wandering along on its own — ”

“What are you doing?” said a voice from the corner of
the room. Neville appeared from behind an armchair,
clutching Trevor the toad, who looked as though he’d
been making another bid for freedom.

“Nothing, Neville, nothing,” said Harry, hurriedly
putting the cloak behind his back.

Neville stared at their guilty faces.

“You’re going out again,” he said.

“No, no, no,” said Hermione. “No, we’re not. Why don’t
you go to bed, Neville?”

Harry looked at the grandfather clock by the door.
They couldn’t afford to waste any more time, Snape
might even now be playing Fluffy to sleep.

“You can’t go out,” said Neville, “you’ll be caught
again. Gryffindor will be in even more trouble.”

“You don’t understand,” said Harry, “this is
important.”

But Neville was clearly steeling himself to do
something desperate.



Page | 305 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“I won’t let you do it,” he said, hurrying to stand in
front of the portrait hole. “I’ll — I’ll fight you!”

“Neville,” Ron exploded, “get away from that hole and
don’t be an idiot — ”

“Don’t you call me an idiot!” said Neville. “I don’t
think you should be breaking any more rules! And
you were the one who told me to stand up to people!”

“Yes, but not to us,” said Ron in exasperation.

“Neville, you don’t know what you’re doing.”

He took a step forward and Neville dropped Trevor the
toad, who leapt out of sight.

“Go on then, try and hit me!” said Neville, raising his
fists. “I’m ready!”

Harry turned to Hermione.

“Do something,” he said desperately.

Hermione stepped forward.

“Neville,” she said, “I’m really, really sorry about this.”
She raised her wand.

“Petrificus Totalusl” she cried, pointing it at Neville.

Neville’s arms snapped to his sides. His legs sprang
together. His whole body rigid, he swayed where he
stood and then fell flat on his face, stiff as a board.

Hermione ran to turn him over. Neville’s jaws were
jammed together so he couldn’t speak. Only his eyes
were moving, looking at them in horror.



Page | 306 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“What’ve you done to him?” Harry whispered.



“It’s the full Body-Bind,” said Hermione miserably.
“Oh, Neville, I’m so sorry.”

“We had to, Neville, no time to explain,” said Harry.

“You’ll understand later, Neville,” said Ron as they
stepped over him and pulled on the Invisibility Cloak.

But leaving Neville lying motionless on the floor didn’t
feel like a very good omen. In their nervous state,
every statue’s shadow looked like Filch, every distant
breath of wind sounded like Peeves swooping down on
them.

At the foot of the first set of stairs, they spotted Mrs.
Norris skulking near the top.

“Oh, let’s kick her, just this once,” Ron whispered in
Harry’s ear, but Harry shook his head. As they
climbed carefully around her, Mrs. Norris turned her
lamplike eyes on them, but didn’t do anything.

They didn’t meet anyone else until they reached the
staircase up to the third floor. Peeves was bobbing
halfway up, loosening the carpet so that people would
trip.

“Who’s there?” he said suddenly as they climbed
toward him. He narrowed his wicked black eyes.
“Know you’re there, even if I can’t see you. Are you
ghoulie or ghostie or wee student beastie?”

He rose up in the air and floated there, squinting at
them.

“Should call Filch, I should, if something’s a-creeping
around unseen.”

Page | 307 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




Harry had a sudden idea.



“Peeves,” he said, in a hoarse whisper, “the Bloody
Baron has his own reasons for being invisible.”

Peeves almost fell out of the air in shock. He caught
himself in time and hovered about a foot off the
stairs.

“So sorry, your bloodiness, Mr. Baron, sir,” he said
greasily. “My mistake, my mistake — I didn’t see you
— of course I didn’t, you’re invisible — forgive old
Peevsie his little joke, sir.”

“I have business here, Peeves,” croaked Harry. “Stay
away from this place tonight.”

“I will, sir, I most certainly will,” said Peeves, rising up
in the air again. “Hope your business goes well,

Baron, I’ll not bother you.”

And he scooted off.

“Brilliant, Harry!” whispered Ron.

A few seconds later, they were there, outside the
third-floor corridor — and the door was already ajar.

“Well, there you are,” Harry said quietly, “Snape’s
already got past Fluffy.”

Seeing the open door somehow seemed to impress
upon all three of them what was facing them.
Underneath the cloak, Harry turned to the other two.

“If you want to go back, I won’t blame you,” he said.
“You can take the cloak, I won’t need it now.”

“Don’t be stupid,” said Ron.

Page | 308 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“We’re coming,” said Hermione.

Harry pushed the door open.

As the door creaked, low, rumbling growls met their
ears. All three of the dog’s noses sniffed madly in their
direction, even though it couldn’t see them.

“What’s that at its feet?” Hermione whispered.

“Looks like a harp,” said Ron. “Snape must have left it
there.”

“It must wake up the moment you stop playing,” said
Harry. “Well, here goes ...”

He put Hagrid’s flute to his lips and blew. It wasn’t
really a tune, but from the first note the beast’s eyes
began to droop. Harry hardly drew breath. Slowly, the
dog’s growls ceased — it tottered on its paws and fell
to its knees, then it slumped to the ground, fast
asleep.

“Keep playing,” Ron warned Harry as they slipped out
of the cloak and crept toward the trapdoor. They
could feel the dog’s hot, smelly breath as they
approached the giant heads.

“I think we’ll be able to pull the door open,” said Ron,
peering over the dog’s back. “Want to go first,
Hermione?”

“No, I don’t!”

“All right.” Ron gritted his teeth and stepped carefully
over the dog’s legs. He bent and pulled the ring of the
trapdoor, which swung up and open.

“What can you see?” Hermione said anxiously.

Page | 309 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Nothing — just black — there’s no way of climbing
down, we’ll just have to drop.”

Harry, who was still playing the flute, waved at Ron to
get his attention and pointed at himself.

“You want to go first? Are you sure?” said Ron. “I
don’t know how deep this thing goes. Give the flute to
Hermione so she can keep him asleep.”

Harry handed the flute over. In the few seconds’
silence, the dog growled and twitched, but the
moment Hermione began to play, it fell back into its
deep sleep.

Harry climbed over it and looked down through the
trapdoor. There was no sign of the bottom.

He lowered himself through the hole until he was
hanging on by his fingertips. Then he looked up at
Ron and said, “If anything happens to me, don’t
follow. Go straight to the owlery and send Hedwig to
Dumbledore, right?”

“Right,” said Ron.

“See you in a minute, I hope. ...”

And Harry let go. Cold, damp air rushed past him as
he fell down, down, down and —

FLUMP. With a funny, muffled sort of thump he
landed on something soft. He sat up and felt around,
his eyes not used to the gloom. It felt as though he
was sitting on some sort of plant.

“It’s okay!” he called up to the light the size of a
postage stamp, which was the open trapdoor, “it’s a
soft landing, you can jump!”

Page | 310 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




Ron followed right away. He landed, sprawled next to
Harry.

“What’s this stuff?” were his first words.

“Dunno, some sort of plant thing. I suppose it’s here
to break the fall. Come on, Hermione!”

The distant music stopped. There was a loud bark
from the dog, but Hermione had already jumped. She
landed on Harry’s other side.

“We must be miles under the school,” she said.

“Lucky this plant thing’s here, really,” said Ron.

“Lucky\” shrieked Hermione. “Look at you both!”

She leapt up and struggled toward a damp wall. She
had to struggle because the moment she had landed,
the plant had started to twist snakelike tendrils
around her ankles. As for Harry and Ron, their legs
had already been bound tightly in long creepers
without their noticing.

Hermione had managed to free herself before the
plant got a firm grip on her. Now she watched in
horror as the two boys fought to pull the plant off
them, but the more they strained against it, the
tighter and faster the plant wound around them.

“Stop moving!” Hermione ordered them. “I know what
this is — it’s Devil’s Snare!”

“Oh, I’m so glad we know what it’s called, that’s a
great help,” snarled Ron, leaning back, trying to stop
the plant from curling around his neck.



Page | 311 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Shut up, I’m trying to remember how to kill it!” said
Hermione.

“Well, hurry up, I can’t breathe!” Harry gasped,
wrestling with it as it curled around his chest.

“Devil’s Snare, Devil’s Snare ... what did Professor
Sprout say? — it likes the dark and the damp — ”

“So light a fire!” Harry choked.

“Yes — of course — but there’s no wood!” Hermione
cried, wringing her hands.

“HAVE YOU GONE MAD?” Ron bellowed. “ARE YOU A
WITCH OR NOT?”

“Oh, right!” said Hermione, and she whipped out her
wand, waved it, muttered something, and sent a jet of
the same bluebell flames she had used on Snape at
the plant. In a matter of seconds, the two boys felt it
loosening its grip as it cringed away from the light
and warmth. Wriggling and flailing, it unraveled itself
from their bodies, and they were able to pull free.

“Lucky you pay attention in Herbology, Hermione,”
said Harry as he joined her by the wall, wiping sweat
off his face.

“Yeah,” said Ron, “and lucky Harry doesn’t lose his
head in a crisis — ‘there’s no wood,’ honestly.”

“This way,” said Harry, pointing down a stone
passageway, which was the only way forward.

All they could hear apart from their footsteps was the
gentle drip of water trickling down the walls. The
passageway sloped downward, and Harry was
reminded of Gringotts. With an unpleasant jolt of the

Page | 312 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




heart, he remembered the dragons said to be
guarding vaults in the wizards’ bank. If they met a
dragon, a fully-grown dragon — Norbert had been bad
enough ...

“Can you hear something?” Ron whispered.

Harry listened. A soft rustling and clinking seemed to
be coming from up ahead.

“Do you think it’s a ghost?”

“I don’t know ... sounds like wings to me.”

“There’s light ahead — I can see something moving.”

They reached the end of the passageway and saw
before them a brilliantly lit chamber, its ceiling
arching high above them. It was full of small, jewel-
bright birds, fluttering and tumbling all around the
room. On the opposite side of the chamber was a
heavy wooden door.

“Do you think they’ll attack us if we cross the room?”
said Ron.

“Probably,” said Harry. “They don’t look very vicious,
but I suppose if they all swooped down at once . . .
well, there’s no other choice ... I’ll run.”

He took a deep breath, covered his face with his arms,
and sprinted across the room. He expected to feel
sharp beaks and claws tearing at him any second,
but nothing happened. He reached the door
untouched. He pulled the handle, but it was locked.

The other two followed him. They tugged and heaved
at the door, but it wouldn’t budge, not even when
Hermione tried her Alohomora Charm.

Page | 313 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Now what?” said Ron.



“These birds ... they can’t be here just for decoration,”
said Hermione.

They watched the birds soaring overhead, glittering —
glittering?

“They’re not birds!” Harry said suddenly. “They’re
keys\ Winged keys — look carefully. So that must
mean ...” he looked around the chamber while the
other two squinted up at the flock of keys. "... yes —
look! Broomsticks! We’ve got to catch the key to the
door!”

“But there are hundreds of them!”

Ron examined the lock on the door.

“We’re looking for a big, old-fashioned one — probably
silver, like the handle.”

They each seized a broomstick and kicked off into the
air, soaring into the midst of the cloud of keys. They
grabbed and snatched, but the bewitched keys darted
and dived so quickly it was almost impossible to
catch one.

Not for nothing, though, was Harry the youngest
Seeker in a century. He had a knack for spotting
things other people didn’t. After a minute’s weaving
about through the whirl of rainbow feathers, he
noticed a large silver key that had a bent wing, as if it
had already been caught and stuffed roughly into the
keyhole.

“That one!” he called to the others. “That big one —
there — no, there — with bright blue wings — the
feathers are all crumpled on one side.”

Page | 314 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




Ron went speeding in the direction that Harry was
pointing, crashed into the ceiling, and nearly fell off
his broom.

“We’ve got to close in on it!” Harry called, not taking
his eyes off the key with the damaged wing. “Ron, you
come at it from above — Hermione, stay below and
stop it from going down — and I’ll try and catch it.
Right, NOW!”

Ron dived, Hermione rocketed upward, the key
dodged them both, and Harry streaked after it; it sped
toward the wall, Harry leaned forward and with a
nasty, crunching noise, pinned it against the stone
with one hand. Ron and Hermione ’s cheers echoed
around the high chamber.

They landed quickly, and Harry ran to the door, the
key struggling in his hand. He rammed it into the lock
and turned — it worked. The moment the lock had
clicked open, the key took flight again, looking very
battered now that it had been caught twice.

“Ready?” Harry asked the other two, his hand on the
door handle. They nodded. He pulled the door open.

The next chamber was so dark they couldn’t see
anything at all. But as they stepped into it, light
suddenly flooded the room to reveal an astonishing
sight.

They were standing on the edge of a huge chessboard,
behind the black chessmen, which were all taller than
they were and carved from what looked like black
stone. Facing them, way across the chamber, were
the white pieces. Harry, Ron and Hermione shivered
slightly — the towering white chessmen had no faces.

“Now what do we do?” Harry whispered.

Page | 315 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“It’s obvious, isn’t it?” said Ron. “We’ve got to play our
way across the room.”



Behind the white pieces they could see another door.

“How?” said Hermione nervously.

“I think,” said Ron, “we’re going to have to be
chessmen.”

He walked up to a black knight and put his hand out
to touch the knights horse. At once, the stone sprang
to life. The horse pawed the ground and the knight
turned his helmeted head to look down at Ron.

“Do we — er — have to join you to get across?”

The black knight nodded. Ron turned to the other
two.

“This needs thinking about. ...” he said. “I suppose
we’ve got to take the place of three of the black pieces.



Harry and Hermione stayed quiet, watching Ron
think. Finally he said, “Now, don’t be offended or
anything, but neither of you are that good at chess —



“We’re not offended,” said Harry quickly. “Just tell us
what to do.”

“Well, Harry, you take the place of that bishop, and
Hermione, you go there instead of that castle.”

“What about you?”

“I’m going to be a knight,” said Ron.

Page | 316 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




The chessmen seemed to have been listening, because
at these words a knight, a bishop, and a castle turned
their backs on the white pieces and walked off the
board, leaving three empty squares that Harry, Ron,
and Hermione took.

“White always plays first in chess,” said Ron, peering
across the board. “Yes ... look ...”

A white pawn had moved forward two squares.

Ron started to direct the black pieces. They moved
silently wherever he sent them. Harry’s knees were
trembling. What if they lost?

“Harry — move diagonally four squares to the right.”

Their first real shock came when their other knight
was taken. The white queen smashed him to the floor
and dragged him off the board, where he lay quite
still, facedown.

“Had to let that happen,” said Ron, looking shaken.
“Leaves you free to take that bishop, Hermione, go
on.”

Every time one of their men was lost, the white pieces
showed no mercy. Soon there was a huddle of limp
black players slumped along the wall. Twice, Ron only
just noticed in time that Harry and Hermione were in
danger. He himself darted around the board, taking
almost as many white pieces as they had lost black
ones.

“We’re nearly there,” he muttered suddenly. “Let me
think — let me think ...”

The white queen turned her blank face toward him.



Page | 317 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Yes ...” said Ron softly, “it’s the only way ... I’ve got
to be taken.”



“NO!” Harry and Hermione shouted.

“That’s chess!” snapped Ron. “You’ve got to make
some sacrifices! I make my move and she’ll take me —
that leaves you free to checkmate the king, Harry!”

“But — ”

“Do you want to stop Snape or not?”

“Ron — ”

“Look, if you don’t hurry up, hell already have the
Stone!”

There was no alternative.

“Ready?” Ron called, his face pale but determined.
“Here I go — now, don’t hang around once you’ve
won.”

He stepped forward, and the white queen pounced.
She struck Ron hard across the head with her stone
arm, and he crashed to the floor — Hermione
screamed but stayed on her square — the white
queen dragged Ron to one side. He looked as if he’d
been knocked out.

Shaking, Harry moved three spaces to the left.

The white king took off his crown and threw it at
Harry’s feet. They had won. The chessmen parted and
bowed, leaving the door ahead clear. With one last
desperate look back at Ron, Harry and Hermione
charged through the door and up the next
passageway.

Page | 318 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“What if he’s — ?”



“He’ll be all right,” said Harry, trying to convince
himself. “What do you reckon’s next?”

“We’ve had Sprout’s, that was the Devil’s Snare;
Flitwick must’ve put charms on the keys; McGonagall
transfigured the chessmen to make them alive; that
leaves Quirrell’s spell, and Snape’s ...”

They had reached another door.

“All right?” Harry whispered.

“Go on.”

Harry pushed it open.

A disgusting smell filled their nostrils, making both of
them pull their robes up over their noses. Eyes
watering, they saw, flat on the floor in front of them, a
troll even larger than the one they had tackled, out
cold with a bloody lump on its head.

“I’m glad we didn’t have to fight that one,” Harry
whispered as they stepped carefully over one of its
massive legs. “Come on, I can’t breathe.”

He pulled open the next door, both of them hardly
daring to look at what came next — but there was
nothing very frightening in here, just a table with
seven differently shaped bottles standing on it in a
line.

“Snape’s,” said Harry. “What do we have to do?”

They stepped over the threshold, and immediately a
fire sprang up behind them in the doorway. It wasn’t
ordinary fire either; it was purple. At the same

Page | 319 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




instant, black flames shot up in the doorway leading
onward. They were trapped.

“Look!” Hermione seized a roll of paper lying next to
the bottles. Harry looked over her shoulder to read it:

Danger lies before you, while safety lies behind,

Two of us will help you, whichever you would find,

One among us seven will let you move ahead,

Another will transport the drinker back instead,

Two among our number hold only nettle wine,

Three of us are killers, waiting hidden in line.

Choose, unless you wish to stay here forevermore,

To help you in your choice, we give you these clues
four:

First, however slyly the poison tries to hide

You will always find some on nettle wine’s left side;

Second, different are those who stand at either end,

But if you would move onward, neither is your friend;

Third, as you see clearly, all are different size,

Neither dwarf nor giant holds death in their insides;

Fourth, the second left and the second on the right

Are twins once you taste them, though different at first
sight

Page | 320 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




Hermione let out a great sigh and Harry, amazed, saw
that she was smiling, the very last thing he felt like
doing.

“Brilliant,” said Hermione. “This isn’t magic — it’s
logic — a puzzle. A lot of the greatest wizards haven’t
got an ounce of logic, they’d be stuck in here forever.”

“But so will we, won’t we?”

“Of course not,” said Hermione. “Everything we need
is here on this paper. Seven bottles: three are poison;
two are wine; one will get us safely through the black
fire, and one will get us back through the purple.”

“But how do we know which to drink?”

“Give me a minute.”

Hermione read the paper several times. Then she
walked up and down the line of bottles, muttering to
herself and pointing at them. At last, she clapped her
hands.

“Got it,” she said. “The smallest bottle will get us
through the black fire — toward the Stone.”

Harry looked at the tiny bottle.

“There’s only enough there for one of us,” he said.
“That’s hardly one swallow.”

They looked at each other.

“Which one will get you back through the purple
flames?”

Hermione pointed at a rounded bottle at the right end
of the line.

Page | 321 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“You drink that,” said Harry. “No, listen, get back and
get Ron. Grab brooms from the flying-key room,
they’ll get you out of the trapdoor and past Fluffy —
go straight to the owlery and send Hedwig to
Dumbledore, we need him. I might be able to hold
Snape off for a while, but I’m no match for him,
really.”

“But Harry — what if You-Know- Who’s with him?”

“Well — I was lucky once, wasn’t I?” said Harry,
pointing at his scar. “I might get lucky again.”

Hermione’s lip trembled, and she suddenly dashed at
Harry and threw her arms around him.

“Hermionel”

“Harry — you’re a great wizard, you know.”

“I’m not as good as you,” said Harry, very
embarrassed, as she let go of him.

“Me!” said Hermione. “Books! And cleverness! There
are more important things — friendship and bravery
and — oh Harry — be carefull”

“You drink first,” said Harry. “You are sure which is
which, aren’t you?”

“Positive,” said Hermione. She took a long drink from
the round bottle at the end, and shuddered.

“It’s not poison?” said Harry anxiously.

“No — but it’s like ice.”

“Quick, go, before it wears off.”



Page | 322 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Good luck — take care — ”



“GO!”

Hermione turned and walked straight through the
purple fire.

Harry took a deep breath and picked up the smallest
bottle. He turned to face the black flames.

“Here I come,” he said, and he drained the little bottle
in one gulp.

It was indeed as though ice was flooding his body. He
put the bottle down and walked forward; he braced
himself, saw the black flames licking his body, but
couldn’t feel them — for a moment he could see
nothing but dark fire — then he was on the other
side, in the last chamber.

There was already someone there — but it wasn’t
Snape. It wasn’t even Voldemort.



Page | 323 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling






THE MAN WITH TWO FACES

It was Quirrell.

“You\” gasped Harry.

Quirrell smiled. His face wasn’t twitching at all.

“Me,” he said calmly. “I wondered whether I’d be
meeting you here, Potter.”

“But I thought — Snape — ”

“Severus?” Quirrell laughed, and it wasn’t his usual
quivering treble, either, but cold and sharp. “Yes,
Severus does seem the type, doesn’t he? So useful to
have him swooping around like an overgrown bat.

Next to him, who would suspect p-p-poor, st-
stuttering P-Professor Quirrell?”

Harry couldn’t take it in. This couldn’t be true, it
couldn’t.

“But Snape tried to kill me!”

Page | 324 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling



“No, no, no. / tried to kill you. Your friend Miss
Granger accidentally knocked me over as she rushed
to set fire to Snape at that Quidditch match. She
broke my eye contact with you. Another few seconds
and I’d have got you off that broom. I’d have managed
it before then if Snape hadn’t been muttering a
countercurse, trying to save you.”

“Snape was trying to save me?”

“Of course,” said Quirrell coolly. “Why do you think
he wanted to referee your next match? He was trying
to make sure I didn’t do it again. Funny, really ... he
needn’t have bothered. I couldn’t do anything with
Dumbledore watching. All the other teachers thought
Snape was trying to stop Gryffindor from winning, he
did make himself unpopular . . . and what a waste of
time, when after all that, I’m going to kill you tonight.”

Quirrell snapped his fingers. Ropes sprang out of thin
air and wrapped themselves tightly around Harry.

“You’re too nosy to live, Potter. Scurrying around the
school on Halloween like that, for all I knew you’d
seen me coming to look at what was guarding the
Stone.”

“ You let the troll in?”

“Certainly. I have a special gift with trolls — you must
have seen what I did to the one in the chamber back
there? Unfortunately, while everyone else was
running around looking for it, Snape, who already
suspected me, went straight to the third floor to head
me off — and not only did my troll fail to beat you to
death, that three-headed dog didn’t even manage to
bite Snape ’s leg off properly.



Page | 325 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Now, wait quietly, Potter. I need to examine this
interesting mirror.”

It was only then that Harry realized what was
standing behind Quirrell. It was the Mirror of Erised.

“This mirror is the key to finding the Stone,” Quirrell
murmured, tapping his way around the frame. “Trust
Dumbledore to come up with something like this . . .
but he’s in London ... I’ll be far away by the time he
gets back. ...”

All Harry could think of doing was to keep Quirrell
talking and stop him from concentrating on the
mirror.

“I saw you and Snape in the forest — ” he blurted out.

“Yes,” said Quirrell idly, walking around the mirror to
look at the back. “He was on to me by that time,
trying to find out how far I’d got. He suspected me all
along. Tried to frighten me — as though he could,
when I had Lord Voldemort on my side. ...”

Quirrell came back out from behind the mirror and
stared hungrily into it.

“I see the Stone ... I’m presenting it to my master ...
but where is it?”

Harry struggled against the ropes binding him, but
they didn’t give. He had to keep Quirrell from giving
his whole attention to the mirror.

“But Snape always seemed to hate me so much.”

“Oh, he does,” said Quirrell casually, “heavens, yes.
He was at Hogwarts with your father, didn’t you



Page | 326 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




know? They loathed each other. But he never wanted
you dead.”

“But I heard you a few days ago, sobbing — I thought
Snape was threatening you.

For the first time, a spasm of fear flitted across
Quirrell’s face.

“Sometimes,” he said, “I find it hard to follow my
master’s instructions — he is a great wizard and I am
weak — ”

“You mean he was there in the classroom with you?”
Harry gasped.

“He is with me wherever I go,” said Quirrell quietly. “I
met him when I traveled around the world. A foolish
young man I was then, full of ridiculous ideas about
good and evil. Lord Voldemort showed me how wrong
I was. There is no good and evil, there is only power,
and those too weak to seek it. ... Since then, I have
served him faithfully, although I have let him down
many times. He has had to be very hard on me.”
Quirrell shivered suddenly. “He does not forgive
mistakes easily. When I failed to steal the Stone from
Gringotts, he was most displeased. He punished me
. . . decided he would have to keep a closer watch on
me. ...”

Quirrell’s voice trailed away. Harry was remembering
his trip to Diagon Alley — how could he have been so
stupid? He’d seen Quirrell there that very day, shaken
hands with him in the Leaky Cauldron.

Quirrell cursed under his breath.

“I don’t understand ... is the Stone inside the mirror?
Should I break it?”

Page | 327 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




Harry’s mind was racing.



What I want more than anything else in the world at
the moment, he thought, is to find the Stone before
Quirrell does. So if I look in the mirror, I should see
my self finding it — which means I’ll see where it’s
hidden! But how can I look without Quirrell realizing
what I’m up to?

He tried to edge to the left, to get in front of the glass
without Quirrell noticing, but the ropes around his
ankles were too tight: he tripped and fell over. Quirrell
ignored him. He was still talking to himself.

“What does this mirror do? How does it work? Help
me, Master!”

And to Harry’s horror, a voice answered, and the voice
seemed to come from Quirrell himself.

“Use the boy ... Use the boy ...”

Quirrell rounded on Harry.

“Yes — Potter — come here.”

He clapped his hands once, and the ropes binding
Harry fell off. Harry got slowly to his feet.

“Come here,” Quirrell repeated. “Look in the mirror
and tell me what you see.”

Harry walked toward him.

I must lie, he thought desperately. I must look and lie
about what I see, that’s all.

Quirrell moved close behind him. Harry breathed in
the funny smell that seemed to come from Quirrell’s

Page | 328 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




turban. He closed his eyes, stepped in front of the
mirror, and opened them again.

He saw his reflection, pale and scared-looking at first.
But a moment later, the reflection smiled at him. It
put its hand into its pocket and pulled out a blood-
red stone. It winked and put the Stone back in its
pocket — and as it did so, Harry felt something heavy
drop into his real pocket. Somehow — incredibly —
he’d gotten the Stone.

“Well?” said Quirrell impatiently. “What do you see?”
Harry screwed up his courage.

“I see myself shaking hands with Dumbledore,” he
invented. “I — I’ve won the House Cup for Gryffindor.”

Quirrell cursed again.

“Get out of the way,” he said. As Harry moved aside,
he felt the Sorcerer’s Stone against his leg. Dare he
make a break for it?

But he hadn’t walked five paces before a high voice
spoke, though Quirrell wasn’t moving his lips.

“He lies ... He lies ...”

“Potter, come back here!” Quirrell shouted. “Tell me
the truth! What did you just see?”

The high voice spoke again.

“Let me speak to him ... face-to-face. ...”

“Master, you are not strong enough!”

“I have strength enough ... for this. ...”

Page | 329 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




Harry felt as if Devil’s Snare was rooting him to the
spot. He couldn’t move a muscle. Petrified, he
watched as Quirrell reached up and began to unwrap
his turban. What was going on? The turban fell away.
Quirrell’s head looked strangely small without it.

Then he turned slowly on the spot.

Harry would have screamed, but he couldn’t make a
sound. Where there should have been a back to
Quirrell’s head, there was a face, the most terrible
face Harry had ever seen. It was chalk white with
glaring red eyes and slits for nostrils, like a snake.

“Harry Potter ...” it whispered.

Harry tried to take a step backward but his legs
wouldn’t move.

“See what I have become?” the face said. “Mere
shadow and vapor ... I have form only when I can
share another’s body . . . but there have always been
those willing to let me into their hearts and minds. ...
Unicorn blood has strengthened me, these past weeks
. . . you saw faithful Quirrell drinking it for me in the
forest ... and once I have the Elixir of Life, I will be
able to create a body of my own. ... Now ... why don’t
you give me that Stone in your pocket?”

So he knew. The feeling suddenly surged back into
Harry’s legs. He stumbled backward.

“Don’t be a fool,” snarled the face. “Better save your
own life and join me ... or you’ll meet the same end as
your parents. ... They died begging me for mercy. ...”

“LIAR!” Harry shouted suddenly.



Page | 330 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




Quirrell was walking backward at him, so that
Voldemort could still see him. The evil face was now
smiling.

“How touching ...” it hissed. “I always value bravery.

... Yes, boy, your parents were brave. ... I killed your
father first, and he put up a courageous fight . . . but
your mother needn’t have died ... she was trying to
protect you. ... Now give me the Stone, unless you
want her to have died in vain.”

“NEVER!”

Harry sprang toward the flame door, but Voldemort
screamed “SEIZE HIM!” and the next second, Harry
felt Quirrell’s hand close on his wrist. At once, a
needle-sharp pain seared across Harry’s scar; his
head felt as though it was about to split in two; he
yelled, struggling with all his might, and to his
surprise, Quirrell let go of him. The pain in his head
lessened — he looked around wildly to see where
Quirrell had gone, and saw him hunched in pain,
looking at his fingers — they were blistering before his
eyes.

“Seize him! SEIZE HIM!” shrieked Voldemort again,
and Quirrell lunged, knocking Harry clean off his feet,
landing on top of him, both hands around Harry’s
neck — Harry’s scar was almost blinding him with
pain, yet he could see Quirrell howling in agony.

“Master, I cannot hold him — my hands — my
hands!”

And Quirrell, though pinning Harry to the ground
with his knees, let go of his neck and stared,
bewildered, at his own palms — Harry could see they
looked burned, raw, red, and shiny.



Page | 331 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Then kill him, fool, and be done!” screeched
Voldemort.

Quirrell raised his hand to perform a deadly curse,
but Harry, by instinct, reached up and grabbed
Quirrell’s face —

“AAAARGH!”

Quirrell rolled off him, his face blistering, too, and
then Harry knew: Quirrell couldn’t touch his bare
skin, not without suffering terrible pain — his only
chance was to keep hold of Quirrell, keep him in
enough pain to stop him from doing a curse.

Harry jumped to his feet, caught Quirrell by the arm,
and hung on as tight as he could. Quirrell screamed
and tried to throw Harry off — the pain in Harry’s
head was building — he couldn’t see — he could only
hear Quirrell’s terrible shrieks and Voldemort’s yells
of, “KILL HIM! KILL HIM!” and other voices, maybe in
Harry’s own head, crying, “Harry! Harry!”

He felt Quirrell’s arm wrenched from his grasp, knew
all was lost, and fell into blackness, down ... down ...
down ...

Something gold was glinting just above him. The
Snitch! He tried to catch it, but his arms were too
heavy.

He blinked. It wasn’t the Snitch at all. It was a pair of
glasses. How strange.

He blinked again. The smiling face of Albus
Dumbledore swam into view above him.

“Good afternoon, Harry,” said Dumbledore.



Page | 332 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




Harry stared at him. Then he remembered: “Sir! The
Stone! It was Quirrell! He’s got the Stone! Sir, quick —



“Calm yourself, dear boy, you are a little behind the
times,” said Dumbledore. “Quirrell does not have the
Stone.”

“Then who does? Sir, I — ”

“Harry, please relax, or Madam Pomfrey will have me
thrown out.”

Harry swallowed and looked around him. He realized
he must be in the hospital wing. He was lying in a bed
with white linen sheets, and next to him was a table
piled high with what looked like half the candy shop.

“Tokens from your friends and admirers,” said
Dumbledore, beaming. “What happened down in the
dungeons between you and Professor Quirrell is a
complete secret, so, naturally, the whole school
knows. I believe your friends Misters Fred and George
Weasley were responsible for trying to send you a
toilet seat. No doubt they thought it would amuse
you. Madam Pomfrey, however, felt it might not be
very hygienic, and confiscated it.”

“How long have I been in here?”

“Three days. Mr. Ronald Weasley and Miss Granger
will be most relieved you have come round, they have
been extremely worried.”

“But sir, the Stone — ”

“I see you are not to be distracted. Very well, the
Stone. Professor Quirrell did not manage to take it



Page | 333 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




from you. I arrived in time to prevent that, although
you were doing very well on your own, I must say.”

“You got there? You got Hermione’s owl?”

“We must have crossed in midair. No sooner had I
reached London than it became clear to me that the
place I should be was the one I had just left. I arrived
just in time to pull Quirrell off you — ”

“It was you.”

“I feared I might be too late.”

“You nearly were, I couldn’t have kept him off the
Stone much longer — ”

“Not the Stone, boy, you — the effort involved nearly
killed you. For one terrible moment there, I was afraid
it had. As for the Stone, it has been destroyed.”

“Destroyed?” said Harry blankly. “But your friend —
Nicolas Flamel — ”

“Oh, you know about Nicolas?” said Dumbledore,
sounding quite delighted. “You did do the thing
properly, didn’t you? Well, Nicolas and I have had a
little chat, and agreed it’s all for the best.”

“But that means he and his wife will die, won’t they?”

“They have enough Elixir stored to set their affairs in
order and then, yes, they will die.”

Dumbledore smiled at the look of amazement on
Harry’s face.

“To one as young as you, I’m sure it seems incredible,
but to Nicolas and Perenelle, it really is like going to

Page | 334 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




bed after a very, very long day. After all, to the well-
organized mind, death is but the next great
adventure. You know, the Stone was really not such a
wonderful thing. As much money and life as you
could want! The two things most human beings would
choose above all — the trouble is, humans do have a
knack of choosing precisely those things that are
worst for them.”

Harry lay there, lost for words. Dumbledore hummed
a little and smiled at the ceiling.

“Sir?” said Harry. “I’ve been thinking ... Sir — even if
the Stone’s gone, Vol-, I mean, You-Know-Who — ”

“Call him Voldemort, Harry. Always use the proper
name for things. Fear of a name increases fear of the
thing itself.”

“Yes, sir. Well, Voldemort’s going to try other ways of
coming back, isn’t he? I mean, he hasn’t gone, has
he?”

“No, Harry, he has not. He is still out there
somewhere, perhaps looking for another body to
share ... not being truly alive, he cannot be killed. He
left Quirrell to die; he shows just as little mercy to his
followers as his enemies. Nevertheless, Harry, while
you may only have delayed his return to power, it will
merely take someone else who is prepared to fight
what seems a losing battle next time — and if he is
delayed again, and again, why, he may never return
to power.”

Harry nodded, but stopped quickly, because it made
his head hurt. Then he said, “Sir, there are some
other things I’d like to know, if you can tell me ...
things I want to know the truth about. ...”



Page | 335 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“The truth.” Dumbledore sighed. “It is a beautiful and
terrible thing, and should therefore be treated with
great caution. However, I shall answer your questions
unless I have a very good reason not to, in which case
I beg you 11 forgive me. I shall not, of course, lie.”

“Well ... Voldemort said that he only killed my mother
because she tried to stop him from killing me. But
why would he want to kill me in the first place?”

Dumbledore sighed very deeply this time.

“Alas, the first thing you ask me, I cannot tell you.

Not today. Not now. You will know, one day ... put it
from your mind for now, Harry. When you are older . . .
I know you hate to hear this . . . when you are ready,
you will know.”

And Harry knew it would be no good to argue.

“But why couldn’t Quirrell touch me?”

“Your mother died to save you. If there is one thing
Voldemort cannot understand, it is love. He didn’t
realize that love as powerful as your mother’s for you
leaves its own mark. Not a scar, no visible sign ... to
have been loved so deeply, even though the person
who loved us is gone, will give us some protection
forever. It is in your very skin. Quirrell, full of hatred,
greed, and ambition, sharing his soul with Voldemort,
could not touch you for this reason. It was agony to
touch a person marked by something so good.”

Dumbledore now became very interested in a bird out
on the windowsill, which gave Harry time to dry his
eyes on the sheet. When he had found his voice again,
Harry said, “And the Invisibility Cloak — do you know
who sent it to me?”



Page | 336 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Ah — your father happened to leave it in my
possession, and I thought you might like it.”
Dumbledore’s eyes twinkled. “Useful things ... your
father used it mainly for sneaking off to the kitchens
to steal food when he was here.”

“And there’s something else ...”

“Fire away.”

“Quirrell said Snape — ”

“Professor Snape, Harry.”

“Yes, him — Quirrell said he hates me because he
hated my father. Is that true?”

“Well, they did rather detest each other. Not unlike
yourself and Mr. Malfoy. And then, your father did
something Snape could never forgive.”

“What?”

“He saved his life.”

“What?”

“Yes ...” said Dumbledore dreamily. “Funny, the way
people’s minds work, isn’t it? Professor Snape
couldn’t bear being in your father’s debt. ... I do
believe he worked so hard to protect you this year
because he felt that would make him and your father
even. Then he could go back to hating your father’s
memory in peace. ...”

Harry tried to understand this but it made his head
pound, so he stopped.

“And sir, there’s one more thing ...”

Page | 337 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Just the one?”



“How did I get the Stone out of the mirror?”

“Ah, now, I’m glad you asked me that. It was one of
my more brilliant ideas, and between you and me,
that’s saying something. You see, only one who
wanted to find the Stone — find it, but not use it —
would be able to get it, otherwise they’d just see
themselves making gold or drinking Elixir of Life. My
brain surprises even me sometimes. ... Now, enough
questions. I suggest you make a start on these
sweets. Ah! Bertie Bott’s Every Flavor Beans! I was
unfortunate enough in my youth to come across a
vomit-flavored one, and since then I’m afraid I’ve
rather lost my liking for them — but I think I’ll be safe
with a nice toffee, don’t you?”

He smiled and popped the golden-brown bean into his
mouth. Then he choked and said, “Alas! Ear wax!”

Madam Pomfrey, the nurse, was a nice woman, but
very strict.

“Just five minutes,” Harry pleaded.

“Absolutely not.”

“You let Professor Dumbledore in. ...”

“Well, of course, that was the headmaster, quite
different. You need rest.”

“I am resting, look, lying down and everything. Oh, go
on, Madam Pomfrey ...”

“Oh, very well,” she said. “But five minutes only.”

And she let Ron and Hermione in.

Page | 338 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Harryl”



Hermione looked ready to fling her arms around him
again, but Harry was glad she held herself in as his
head was still very sore.

“Oh, Harry, we were sure you were going to —
Dumbledore was so worried — ”

“The whole school’s talking about it,” said Ron. “What
really happened?”

It was one of those rare occasions when the true story
is even more strange and exciting than the wild
rumors. Harry told them everything: Quirrell; the
mirror; the Stone; and Voldemort. Ron and Hermione
were a very good audience; they gasped in all the
right places, and when Harry told them what was
under Quirrell’s turban, Hermione screamed out loud.

“So the Stone’s gone?” said Ron finally. “Flamel’s just
going to die?”

“That’s what I said, but Dumbledore thinks that —
what was it? — ‘to the well-organized mind, death is
but the next great adventure.’ ”

“I always said he was off his rocker,” said Ron,
looking quite impressed at how crazy his hero was.

“So what happened to you two?” said Harry.

“Well, I got back all right,” said Hermione. “I brought
Ron round — that took a while — and we were
dashing up to the owlery to contact Dumbledore when
we met him in the entrance hall — he already knew —
he just said, ‘Harry’s gone after him, hasn’t he?’ and
hurtled off to the third floor.”

Page | 339 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“D’you think he meant you to do it?” said Ron.
“Sending you your fathers cloak and everything?”

“Well,” Hermione exploded, “if he did — I mean to say
— that’s terrible — you could have been killed.”

“No, it isn’t,” said Harry thoughtfully. “He’s a funny
man, Dumbledore. I think he sort of wanted to give
me a chance. I think he knows more or less
everything that goes on here, you know. I reckon he
had a pretty good idea we were going to try, and
instead of stopping us, he just taught us enough to
help. I don’t think it was an accident he let me find
out how the mirror worked. It’s almost like he thought
I had the right to face Voldemort if I could. ...”

“Yeah, Dumbledore’s off his rocker, all right,” said
Ron proudly. “Listen, you’ve got to be up for the end-
of-year feast tomorrow. The points are all in and
Slytherin won, of course — you missed the last
Quidditch match, we were steamrollered by
Ravenclaw without you — but the food’ll be good.”

At that moment, Madam Pomfrey bustled over.

“You’ve had nearly fifteen minutes, now OUT,” she
said firmly.



•k k k



After a good night’s sleep, Harry felt nearly back to
normal.

“I want to go to the feast,” he told Madam Pomfrey as
she straightened his many candy boxes. “I can, can’t
I?”



Page | 340 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Professor Dumbledore says you are to be allowed to
go,” she said sniffily, as though in her opinion
Professor Dumbledore didn’t realize how risky feasts
could be. “And you have another visitor.”

“Oh, good,” said Harry. “Who is it?”

Hagrid sidled through the door as he spoke. As usual
when he was indoors, Hagrid looked too big to be
allowed. He sat down next to Harry, took one look at
him, and burst into tears.

“It’s — all — my — ruddy — fault!” he sobbed, his
face in his hands. “I told the evil git how ter get past
Fluffy! I told him! It was the only thing he didn’t
know, an’ I told him! Yeh could’ve died! All fer a
dragon egg! I’ll never drink again! I should be chucked
out an’ made ter live as a Muggle!”

“Hagrid!” said Harry, shocked to see Hagrid shaking
with grief and remorse, great tears leaking down into
his beard. “Hagrid, he’d have found out somehow,
this is Voldemort we’re talking about, he’d have found
out even if you hadn’t told him.”

“Yeh could’ve died!” sobbed Hagrid. “An’ don’ say the
name!”

“VOLDEMORT!” Harry bellowed, and Hagrid was so
shocked, he stopped crying. “I’ve met him and I’m
calling him by his name. Please cheer up, Hagrid, we
saved the Stone, it’s gone, he can’t use it. Have a
Chocolate Frog, I’ve got loads. ...”

Hagrid wiped his nose on the back of his hand and
said, “That reminds me. I’ve got yeh a present.”

“It’s not a stoat sandwich, is it?” said Harry
anxiously, and at last Hagrid gave a weak chuckle.

Page | 341 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Nah. Dumbledore gave me the day off yesterday ter
fix it. ’Course, he shoulda sacked me instead —
anyway, got y eh this ...”

It seemed to be a handsome, leather-covered book.
Harry opened it curiously. It was full of wizard
photographs. Smiling and waving at him from every
page were his mother and father.

“Sent owls off ter all yer parents’ old school friends,
askin’ fer photos ... knew yeh didn’ have any ... d’yeh
like it?”

Harry couldn’t speak, but Hagrid understood.

Harry made his way down to the end-of-year feast
alone that night. He had been held up by Madam
Pomfrey’s fussing about, insisting on giving him one
last checkup, so the Great Hall was already full. It
was decked out in the Slytherin colors of green and
silver to celebrate Slytherin ’s winning the House Cup
for the seventh year in a row. A huge banner showing
the Slytherin serpent covered the wall behind the
High Table.

When Harry walked in there was a sudden hush, and
then everybody started talking loudly at once. He
slipped into a seat between Ron and Hermione at the
Gryffindor table and tried to ignore the fact that
people were standing up to look at him.

Fortunately, Dumbledore arrived moments later. The
babble died away.

“Another year gone!” Dumbledore said cheerfully.

“And I must trouble you with an old man’s wheezing
waffle before we sink our teeth into our delicious
feast. What a year it has been! Hopefully your heads
are all a little fuller than they were . . . you have the
Page | 342 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




whole summer ahead to get them nice and empty
before next year starts. ...

“Now, as I understand it, the House Cup here needs
awarding, and the points stand thus: In fourth place,
Gryffindor, with three hundred and twelve points; in
third, Hufflepuff, with three hundred and fifty-two;
Ravenclaw has four hundred and twenty-six and
Slytherin, four hundred and seventy- two.”

A storm of cheering and stamping broke out from the
Slytherin table. Harry could see Draco Malfoy banging
his goblet on the table. It was a sickening sight.

“Yes, yes, well done, Slytherin,” said Dumbledore.
“However, recent events must be taken into account.”

The room went very still. The Slytherins’ smiles faded
a little.

“Ahem,” said Dumbledore. “I have a few last-minute
points to dish out. Let me see. Yes ...

“First — to Mr. Ronald Weasley ...”

Ron went purple in the face; he looked like a radish
with a bad sunburn.

"... for the best-played game of chess Hogwarts has
seen in many years, I award Gryffindor House fifty
points.”

Gryffindor cheers nearly raised the bewitched ceiling;
the stars overhead seemed to quiver. Percy could be
heard telling the other prefects, “My brother, you
know! My youngest brother! Got past McGonagall’s
giant chess set!”

At last there was silence again.

Page | 343 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Second — to Miss Hermione Granger . . . for the use of
cool logic in the face of fire, I award Gryffindor House
fifty points.”

Hermione buried her face in her arms; Harry strongly
suspected she had burst into tears. Gryffindors up
and down the table were beside themselves — they
were a hundred points up.

“Third — to Mr. Harry Potter ...” said Dumbledore.

The room went deadly quiet. "... for pure nerve and
outstanding courage, I award Gryffindor House sixty
points.”

The din was deafening. Those who could add up while
yelling themselves hoarse knew that Gryffindor now
had four hundred and seventy-two points — exactly
the same as Slytherin. They had tied for the House
Cup — if only Dumbledore had given Harry just one
more point.

Dumbledore raised his hand. The room gradually fell
silent.

“There are all kinds of courage,” said Dumbledore,
smiling. “It takes a great deal of bravery to stand up
to our enemies, but just as much to stand up to our
friends. I therefore award ten points to Mr. Neville
Longbottom.”

Someone standing outside the Great Hall might well
have thought some sort of explosion had taken place,
so loud was the noise that erupted from the
Gryffindor table. Harry, Ron, and Hermione stood up
to yell and cheer as Neville, white with shock,
disappeared under a pile of people hugging him. He
had never won so much as a point for Gryffindor
before. Harry, still cheering, nudged Ron in the ribs
and pointed at Malfoy, who couldn’t have looked more
Page | 344 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




stunned and horrified if he’d just had the Body-Bind
Curse put on him.

“Which means,” Dumbledore called over the storm of
applause, for even Ravenclaw and Hufflepuff were
celebrating the downfall of Slytherin, “we need a little
change of decoration.”

He clapped his hands. In an instant, the green
hangings became scarlet and the silver became gold;
the huge Slytherin serpent vanished and a towering
Gryffindor lion took its place. Snape was shaking
Professor McGonagall’s hand, with a horrible, forced
smile. He caught Harry’s eye and Harry knew at once
that Snape ’s feelings toward him hadn’t changed one
jot. This didn’t worry Harry. It seemed as though life
would be back to normal next year, or as normal as it
ever was at Hogwarts.

It was the best evening of Harry’s life, better than
winning at Quidditch, or Christmas, or knocking out
mountain trolls ... he would never, ever forget tonight.

Harry had almost forgotten that the exam results
were still to come, but come they did. To their great
surprise, both he and Ron passed with good marks;
Hermione, of course, had the best grades of the first
years. Even Neville scraped through, his good
Herbology mark making up for his abysmal Potions
one. They had hoped that Goyle, who was almost as
stupid as he was mean, might be thrown out, but he
had passed, too. It was a shame, but as Ron said, you
couldn’t have everything in life.

And suddenly, their wardrobes were empty, their
trunks were packed, Neville’s toad was found lurking
in a corner of the toilets; notes were handed out to all
students, warning them not to use magic over the
holidays (“I always hope they’ll forget to give us
Page | 345 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




these,” said Fred Weasley sadly); Hagrid was there to
take them down to the fleet of boats that sailed across
the lake; they were boarding the Hogwarts Express;
talking and laughing as the countryside became
greener and tidier; eating Bertie Bott’s Every Flavor
Beans as they sped past Muggle towns; pulling off
their wizard robes and putting on jackets and coats;
pulling into platform nine and three-quarters at
King’s Cross station.

It took quite a while for them all to get off the
platform. A wizened old guard was up by the ticket
barrier, letting them go through the gate in twos and
threes so they didn’t attract attention by all bursting
out of a solid wall at once and alarming the Muggles.

“You must come and stay this summer,” said Ron,
“both of you — I’ll send you an owl.”

“Thanks,” said Harry, “I’ll need something to look
forward to.”

People jostled them as they moved forward toward the
gateway back to the Muggle world. Some of them
called:

“Bye, Harry!”

“See you, Potter!”

“Still famous,” said Ron, grinning at him.

“Not where I’m going, I promise you,” said Harry.

He, Ron, and Hermione passed through the gateway
together.

“There he is, Mom, there he is, look!”



Page | 346 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




It was Ginny Weasley, Ron’s younger sister, but she
wasn’t pointing at Ron.

“Harry Potter!” she squealed. “Look, Mom! I can see
“Be quiet, Ginny, and it’s rude to point.”

Mrs. Weasley smiled down at them.

“Busy year?” she said.

“Very,” said Harry. “Thanks for the fudge and the
sweater, Mrs. Weasley.”

“Oh, it was nothing, dear.”

“Ready, are you?”

It was Uncle Vernon, still purple-faced, still
mustached, still looking furious at the nerve of Harry,
carrying an owl in a cage in a station full of ordinary
people. Behind him stood Aunt Petunia and Dudley,
looking terrified at the very sight of Harry.

“You must be Harry’s family!” said Mrs. Weasley.

“In a manner of speaking,” said Uncle Vernon. “Hurry
up, boy, we haven’t got all day.” He walked away.

Harry hung back for a last word with Ron and
Hermione.

“See you over the summer, then.”

“Hope you have — er — a good holiday,” said
Hermione, looking uncertainly after Uncle Vernon,
shocked that anyone could be so unpleasant.



Page | 347 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling




“Oh, I will,” said Harry, and they were surprised at
the grin that was spreading over his face. “ They don’t
know we’re not allowed to use magic at home. I’m
going to have a lot of fun with Dudley this summer...”



Page | 348 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone - J.K. Rowling








